
   Faith, Hope, & Trick - Buffy Episode 37 Transcript
   
    
   


Faith, Hope, & Trick





Written by:  David Greenwalt
Directed by:  James A. Contner
Transcribed by:  AleXander Thompson

Copyright © 1998 Alexander Thompson

                   ~~~~~~~~~~ Disclaimer ~~~~~~~~~~

I do not own the characters in this story, nor do I own any rights to 
the television show "Buffy the Vampire Slayer". They were created by 
Joss Whedon and belong to him, Mutant Enemy, Sandollar Television, Kuzui 
Enterprises, 20th Century Fox Television and the WB Television Network.

This is not a novelization or a script. It is a straightforward and dry 
transcript of the episode "Faith, Hope and Trick". It also includes 
descriptions of the settings, action scenes and camera movements where I 
felt they were needed.

I made every effort to accurately transcribe the dialogue from this 
episode. If you notice anything that is transcribed incorrectly, please 
let me know and I will post an update.                     rev 98.10.26

This episode was originally broadcast on October 13, 1998.

                    ~~~~~~~~~~ Prologue ~~~~~~~~~~

Lunch hour at Sunnydale High School. The camera pans at a very low angle 
along the sidewalk past the stairs at the front of the school. Seniors 
are coming and going. The camera comes to rest on two pairs of legs, one 
standing calmly, the other rocking back and forth, heel to toe. The 
camera pans up to Willow and Oz, waiting for Xander and Cordelia so they 
can go. Oz is characteristically calm, but Willow is swaying around, 
almost nervously.

Willow:  (smiling) I'm giddy.

Oz:  Oh, I like you giddy. Always have.

Willow:  It's the freedom! As Seniors, we can go off-campus now for 
lunch. It's no longer cutting. It's legal! Heck, it's expected! Wow, 
it's, uh, also a big step forward, a Senior moment, one that has to be 
savored.

Oz looks back and sees Xander and Cordelia coming.

Willow:  You can't just rush into this, you know?

Xander heads for Willow's side opposite Oz, and the two boys each grab 
an arm and start to pull her across the street.

Willow:  Ohh!

She starts to resist, leaning backward with all of her weight.

Willow:  No, I can't!

Oz and Xander just lift her by the arms and pull harder. Cordelia smiles 
at the spectacle.

Xander:  You can.

Oz:  See, you are.

Willow:  Oh, but, no! What if they changed the rule without telling? 
What if they're lying in wait to *arrest* me a-and, and throw me in 
detention and mar my unblemished record?

They reach the other side of the street, and Oz and Xander steady her on 
the sidewalk.

Xander:  Breathe. Breathe.

Willow takes a breath and lets it out, calming herself.

Willow:  Okay. Hmm...

Oz takes Willow by the hand and Xander puts his arm around Cordelia. 
They begin walking into the small park in front of the school.

Willow:  (relaxed) This is good! This is... Hey, we're Seniors! (with an 
attitude) Hey, I'm walkin' here! (giggles)

They see Buffy just inside the park. She has laid out a blanket in the 
shade of a palm tree by a bench, and is setting out serving plates of 
food and bottles of drinks. The group begins to walk toward her.

Xander:  Ahh. Buffy and food.

Willow:  Maybe we shouldn't be too couple-y around Buffy.

Cordelia:  Oh, you mean 'cause of how the only guy that ever liked her 
turned into a vicious killer and had to be put down like a dog?

Xander:  (admiringly) Can she cram complex issues into a nutshell, or 
what?

They come up behind the tree just out of Buffy's view.

Oz:  All right, prepare to uncouple...

They take a few more steps.

Oz:  Uncouple.

They let go of each other as they come around the tree. Willow crosses 
in front of Xander so Buffy sees girls on the right, boys on the left.

Xander:  Buffy, banned from campus, but not from our hearts, how are you 
and what's for lunch?

Oz climbs onto the bench and sits on the backrest. The others kneel on 
the blanket.

Buffy:  Oh, I just threw a few things together.

Cordelia:  (impressed with Buffy's offerings) When did you become Martha 
Stewart?

Buffy:  First of all, Martha Stewart knows jack about hand-cut 
prosciutto. (hands out drink bottles)

Xander:  I don't believe she slays, either.

Oz:  Oh, I hear she can, but she doesn't like to.

Buffy:  (opens her bottle) Second of all, way too much free time on my 
hands since I got kicked out of school. (takes a drink)

Willow:  Oh, I know they'll let you back in. (takes a drink)

Xander:  Don't you and your mom have a meeting with Principal Snyder?

Buffy:  We're seeing Snyde-Man tomorrow.

Willow:  (notices a boy) Ooo, Scott Hope at eleven o'clock. (Buffy 
looks) (to Buffy) He likes you. He wanted to ask you out last year, but 
you weren't ready then. But I think you're ready now, or at least in the 
state of pre-readiness to make conversation, or-or to do that thing with 
your mouth that boys like.

Buffy snaps her head around at Willow and gives her a shocked look.

Willow:  (realizes her slip-up) Oh! I didn't mean the *bad* thing with 
your mouth, I meant that little half-smile thing that you... (glares at 
Oz) You're supposed to stop me when I do that.

Oz:  (smiles and shakes his head) I like when you do that.

Scott has finished talking with his friends and comes toward them. Buffy 
watches him approach. As he passes he looks over at Buffy.

Scott:  (smiles) Hi, Buffy.

Buffy:  (smiles back) Hi.

Scott just continues on his way. Willow breaks out into a huge smile.

Willow:  I think that went very well. Don't you think that went very 
well?

Cordelia:  He didn't try to slit our throats or anything. (nods) That's 
progress.

Willow:  Hey, did you do that little half-smile thing?

Buffy:  (sighs) Look, I'm not trying to snare Scott Hope. I just want to 
get my life back, you know, do normal stuff.

Willow:  Like date?

Buffy:  Well...

Xander:  Oh, you wanna date. I saw that half-smile, you little slut. 
(chuckles)

Buffy punches him on the arm, and none too lightly.

Xander:  (smiles and chuckles) Ow. (winces and holds his arm)

Buffy:  All right, yes, date and shop and hang out and go to school and 
save the world from unspeakable demons. You know, I wanna do girlie 
stuff!

Cut to Happy Burger that night. The camera pans down from a shot of the 
building, past the restaurant's mascot, a fat boy eating a burger, and 
stops on the building again. A black stretch-limousine pulls into the 
parking lot and heads toward the drive-through lane. Cut to the back of 
the building. The car pulls up and stops at another fat boy fitted with 
a speaker and mic. The window of the limo lowers.

Voice:  Welcome to Happy Burger. May I take your order, please?

Trick:  Diet soda. Medium.

Voice:  That'll be eighty-nine cents at the window, sir.

Trick raises the window, and the car pulls forward. Cut inside the car.

Trick:  Sunnydale. (looks at the man next to him) Town's got quaint. And 
the people? (smiles) He called me 'sir'. Don't you just miss that? I 
mean, admittedly, it's not a haven for the brothers, you know, strictly 
the Caucasian Persuasion here in the Dale. But, you know, you just gotta 
stand up and salute their death rate. I ran a statistical analysis, 
(smiles) and hello darkness. It makes... D.C. look... like Mayberry, and 
ain't nobody saying boo about it. We could fit right in here. Have us 
some fun.

The shot cuts to the other man, hidden in shadow.

Kakistos:  (growls) We're here for one thing.

He pulls his cloven hand from Trick's knee. Trick looks at it, 
disgusted.

Trick:  Kill the Slayer, yeah. Still, big picture...

He lowers the window again, and looks out. Cut outside. He hands the boy 
at the window a dollar. The boy hands him back the soda, a straw and his 
change.

Boy:  (smiles) Have a nice night, sir.

Trick:  (smiles) Right back at ya. (sits back)

Cut inside the limo.

Kakistos:  The Slayer. I'm going to rip her spine from her body, and I'm 
going to eat her heart and suck the marrow from her bones.

Trick considers that for a moment, smacking his lips.

Trick:  Now I'm hungry.

Cut outside. Trick lunges out of the window, vamped out. The boy is 
shocked, and tries to move away, but Trick already has him by the shirt. 
The boy screams as Trick pulls him out of the building and part way into 
the limousine. The car takes off with the boy's legs kicking outside the 
window. The limo screeches through the parking lot and into the street. 
The camera stops on the Happy Burger mascot, its mouth wide open to take 
another bite from the burger that it's holding.

Opening credits roll. Buffy's theme plays.

                    ~~~~~~~~~~ Part 1 ~~~~~~~~~~

The Bronze. "The Background" by Third Eye Blind begins to play as the 
camera approaches the door. Cut inside. The camera pans past several 
couples dancing slowly to the music. It comes to rest on Buffy and 
Angel. They hold each other close and look deeply into each other's eyes 
as they slowly dance.

Lyrics:  Everything is quiet

Buffy:  I miss you.

At a nearby table Oz, Willow, Cordelia and Xander watch them dance. 
Their faces are devoid of any expression.

Lyrics:  Since you're not around

Buffy moves her left hand with her Claddagh ring down Angel's arm to 
take his hand.

Lyrics:  And I live in the numbness now

The ring is loose on her finger, and before she can clasp his hand it 
falls off and clinks on the floor.

Lyrics:  In the background

Angel and Buffy both look down at the ring.

Lyrics:  I do the things we did before

Angel reaches down to pick up the ring. The music fades out.

Lyrics:  I walk Haight Street to the store

Angel stands back up holding the ring. He gives Buffy a wounded look. 
She looks at the ring, frightened. Suddenly she flashes back to the 
mansion and sees herself thrusting the sword through Angel, and his 
surprised and pained face as the vortex closes and he disappears into 
Acathla's mouth with it. Her flashback is over, and the camera is on the 
gang at the table again, still watching, still expressionless. Cut to 
Angel and Buffy on the dance floor.

Buffy:  I had to.

Angel's breath is shaky. He looks down at the ring in his fingers. He 
clenches it in his fist. Blood begins to ooze from between his fingers 
and drip to the floor. He looks intensely at Buffy.

Angel:  I loved you.

Buffy watches aghast as the blood continues to drip. Then a bloodstain 
appears on his shirt at mid-chest. It grows quickly and begins to soak 
the front of his shirt. Buffy draws a frightened, worried breath and 
reaches out to his wound.

Buffy:  Oh, God! Angel...

Angel:  (yells) GO TO HELL!

He stares at her with intense anger in his eyes. Buffy looks up from his 
chest wound to his face. It has turned green, and one side is rotting. 
Angel smiles and laughs smugly as he looks back at her.

Angel:  I did.

Cut to Buffy's room. She wakes from her dream with a start and jerks her 
head from the pillow. Realizing it was only a dream, she puts her hand 
to her head and pulls it back through her hair. She sits up in bed and 
looks over at her nightstand. She reaches over, pulls open the drawer 
and lifts out a chain on which she has placed her Claddagh ring. She 
sits up straight in her bed and looks closely at the ring again: two 
hands for friendship, a crown for loyalty and a heart for love. Her 
mother knocks on her door and pokes her head in.

Joyce:  Morning, Sunshine! (smiles) Ready to face the beast?

Cut to Snyder's office. He sits behind his desk, calmly giving it to 
them straight.

Snyder:  Here are the terms of your re-entry, Missy. Take 'em or leave 
'em.

Buffy takes a letter opener from his desk and begins to play with it.

Snyder:  One: that you pass a makeup test of every class you skipped out 
on last year.

Buffy looks around absentmindedly and taps the letter opener on her 
hand.

Snyder:  Two: that you provide, in writing, one *glowing* letter of 
recommendation from any member of our faculty who is not an English 
librarian.

Buffy's tapping is beginning to annoy him.

Snyder:  Three: that you complete an interview (stands up) with our 
school psychologist (walks around his desk toward Buffy) who must 
conclude that your violent tendencies...

He pauses for a moment, then snatches the letter opener from Buffy's 
hand.

Snyder:  ...are under control.

Joyce:  I'm not sure I like your attitude, Mr. Snyder. I spoke with the 
school board, and according to them...

Snyder:  (walks back around his desk) I'm required to educate every 
juvenile who is not in jail where she belongs.

He stops and looks out the window with his back to them.

Snyder:  Welcome back.

Joyce and Buffy give each other a smile. Buffy stands up.

Buffy:  So let me get this straight. I'm really back in school because 
the school board *overruled* you. (Snyder faces her) Wow. That's like 
having your whole ability to do this job called into question, when you 
think about it.

Joyce:  (gets up also) I think what my daughter's trying to say is... 
(sing-song) Nyah, nyah-nyah-nyah, nyah.

She gives Snyder a defiant look, and the two women turn and walk out of 
the office, proud of themselves. Snyder just blankly watches them go. 
The intercom on his desk buzzes.

Secretary:  It's the Mayor on line one.

Snyder's eyes quickly widen with worry.

Cut to the library. Willow and Buffy walk in. The place seems to be 
empty of people.

Willow:  It's so great that you're a schoolgirl again.

Buffy:  Giles say what he wanted? Do you think he's mad?

They stop at the counter. There are bowls and jars of various dried 
herbs arrayed on it.

Willow:  No, I don't think so. I think he just needed to see you. 
(glances around) (smiling) Have you ever noticed, though, when he *is* 
mad, but he's too English to say anything, he makes that weird cluck-
cluck sound with his tongue?

Giles suddenly rises up from behind the counter and looks at the things 
he's laid out on the counter.

Buffy:  Hi, Giles! (raises her eyebrows at Willow and smiles)

Willow:  (turns to face him, looking worried) Oh, hi! Been there long?

Giles:  (preoccupied) Buffy, good timing. (looks around behind the 
counter) I could use your help. I trust you remember the demon Acathla?

Buffy:  Giles, contain yourself. Yes, I'm back in school, but you know 
how it embarrasses me when you gush so. (Giles looks up from his 
searching) Let's just skip all that and get straight to work.

Giles:  (slowly straightens up) Oh, ahhhh... Well, I, um... Well-w... O-
o-of course, it's wonderful to have you back, i-i-it goes without 
saying. (Buffy raises her eyebrows at him and smiles) But... (notices 
Buffy's look) You enjoy making me say it, don't you?

He sets his glasses on his nose and continues looking around. Buffy 
plays with a bowl on the counter.

Buffy: Okay, Acathla, huh? What are you doing, making him some demon 
pizza?

She picks up a bundle of sage, sniffs it and frowns. She holds it over 
for Willow to sniff, who smiles.

Giles:  We need to make sure that he remains dormant and that the 
dimensional vortex is sealed tight. So I'm working on a binding spell.

Willow:  (perks up) Oh, a spell? Can I help?

Giles:  Possibly, with the research. It's very sensitive and...

Willow:  (sounding hurt) Oh! Who's more sensitive than me?

Giles:  ...and difficult spell. (Willow frowns) It involves creating a-
a-a protective circle around... Well, I don't want to bore you with the 
details, but, uh, well, there's a litany th-that one has to recite in 
Aramaic, and it's very specific. So I need to get a few details about 
your experience of defeating Acathla and Angel.

He starts ingredient hunting again.

Buffy:  (considers for a moment) Fire away.

Giles:  I've put the time at about, um, (checks his notes) 6:17, around, 
about half an hour after Xander rescued me. (comes back to the counter)

Buffy:  Less. More like ten minutes.

Giles:  Oh, was the vortex already open?

Buffy:  Barely.

Giles:  I see. And Angel?

Buffy:  A big fight, Angel got the pointy end of the sword, Acathla 
sucked him into Hell instead of the world. That's about the it.

Giles:  (writes a few notes) Yes, well, that, um... should be very 
helpful.

Buffy:  (checks her watch) Oh, no, I have to go take an English makeup 
exam. (gets her pile of books from the counter) They give you credit 
just for speaking it, right?

She just gets looks from Giles and Willow.

Buffy:  (whines) Oh...

She heads out the door to go take her exam. Willow picks up the bundle 
of sage and sniffs it some more.

Willow:  Mm, sage. I love that smell. (reaches into a jar) And marnox 
root. You know, a smidge of this mixed with a virgin's saliva... (gets a 
look from Giles) Does something I know nothing about.

Giles:  These forces are not something that one plays around with, 
Willow. What have you been conjuring?

Willow:  Nothing... much. Well, you know, I tried this spell to cure 
Angel, and I guess that was a bust. But since then, you know, small 
stuff: floating feather, fire out of ice, which next time I won't do on 
the bedspread. (Giles looks down) Are you mad at me?

Giles:  (looks up) No, of course not, no. If I were, I would be making a 
strange clucking sound with my tongue.

Willow is embarrassed and smiles cutely up at him.

Cut to the Bronze. The band tonight is Darling Violetta, playing "Cure". 
The camera pans into the dance area and pauses on the band for a moment. 
Most couples are dancing normally, but there's one couple that is a bit 
more energetic about it.

Lyrics:  I've given you every part of me / Tried everything I could to 
make you see

Another couple leaves the dance floor, and the camera follows them until 
they pass by an alcove furnished like a turn-of-the-century parlor, with 
a love seat, a couple of armchairs, tables and a lamp with a pink shade. 
A couple is sitting on the loveseat having some romantic smoochies.

Lyrics:  But you don't love yourself

Buffy walks into view from behind carrying drinks and heads for them. 
Cut to the couple on the loveseat. It's Willow and Oz. Buffy crosses in 
front of the camera and sits in an adjacent chair.

Buffy:  Don't let me interrupt.

Willow and Oz look up from their kissing. Willow sits up. Buffy smiles 
and hands Oz one of the drinks.

Oz:  Thanks.

Lyrics:  You can't love me or anyone else

Willow notices Buffy's cheery mood and smiles as Oz accepts another 
drink from her and passes one to Willow.

Willow:  Are you... (to Oz) Is she all glowy?

Buffy rolls her eyes up to the right and gives them an innocent look.

Oz:  Yeah, I suspect happiness.

Buffy:  (smiles) I passed my English makeup exam, hangin' with my 
friends. Hello, my life, how I've missed you.

Lyrics:  You said I was the best thing in your life

Scott approaches them.

Willow:  Hi, Scott. What are you doing here?

Scott:  (gives her a smile) You told me if I came after 8:00, I could 
run into Buffy.

Lyrics:  Is that why you run, why you hide?

Buffy shoots Willow a look. Willow is embarrassed and hides behind her 
drink, taking a big gulp.

Scott:  (to Buffy, smiling) Uh, I'm sorry. I'm a bad liar. It's not good 
for the soul. (gestures at his face) O-o-or the skin, actually. It makes 
me blotch.

Lyrics:  You will never be the cure

Buffy:  Hi, Scott. (smiles)

Scott:  Hi.

Things are a bit awkward now, and Scott looks around for something to 
comment on.

Lyrics:  And you will never change

Scott:  Don't you love this song?

Buffy:  Uh, yeah! Actually, I do.

Lyrics:  You will never be the cure

Scott:  Well, would you like to... (indicates the dance floor)

Buffy:  Dance? Um...

Willow smiles at her encouragingly.

Lyrics:  And you will never change

Buffy:  I don't know. (Willow frowns) I'm bad with... Well...

Lyrics:  You will never be the cure

Buffy:  (fidgets) Thank you for asking, it's just that there...

Scott:  Okay, you know what? I'm just gonna go stand by the dance floor. 
If you change your mind, you can mosey on over, and then if not, then 
you don't mosey. No harm, no foul, right?

Buffy:  (halfheartedly) Right.

Lyrics:  I've given you every part of me

Scott walks off to find a place to wait. Buffy rolls her eyes and flops 
her head back, mentally kicking herself for the way she handled that.

Willow:  (very disappointed) Come on, Buffy. I mean, the guy is charm, 
a-and normal, which is what you wanted to get back to.

Lyrics:  Tried everything I could to make you see

Oz:  Plus bonus points for use of the word 'mosey'.

Buffy:  I just don't think I'm ready.

Willow:  What's stopping you?

Lyrics:  But you don't love yourself

Cordelia and Xander walk up.

Cordelia:  Check out Slut-O-Rama and her Disco Dave.

She points and looks onto the dance floor as she and Xander sit on a low 
table against a wall. The camera cuts to the energetically dancing 
couple. Although the girl's style is more contemporary, the guy is 
dancing way too fast for the music, with an unmistakable 70's disco 
influence.

Cordelia:  What was the last thing that guy danced to, K.C. and the 
Sunshine Band?

Willow and Oz both cock their heads to look at them.

Lyrics:  You can't love me or anyone else

The couple continues to dance, getting close and touching each other at 
one point, then separating again.

Lyrics:  You said I was the best thing in your life

Buffy begins to really wonder about them. The couple gets close again, 
and the girl extends her arm, pointing at the door. The guy takes the 
hint, and leads her out with his arm around her. Buffy watches them go, 
suspicious of his intentions. She sees him say bye to his buddy and head 
for the door.

Buffy:  I don't think that guy thrives on sunshine.

She quickly puts down her drink and starts out after them. As she 
crosses the room behind the dance floor, Scott sees her coming and steps 
over to intercept her.

Scott:  Hi.

Buffy:  (stops short, startled) Hi. Oh, (frowns) no, I... (points at the 
door) I-I have to...

Scott:  (gets it) Oh. Uh, uh, sorry, my bad.

Buffy:  (apologetic) No. I-it's mine. Really, it's mine, but I... 
(glances back at the others) I-I-I have to go. (hurries out)

Scott is very confused, and just watches her leave.

Cut outside. Buffy strides out and looks around. Xander comes out right 
behind her followed closely by the others.

Buffy:  Where'd she go?

She takes a few steps down the alley to the left to check things out. 
The others looks around also.

Cordelia:  I bet it's nothing. They're probably just making out.

Buffy comes back. They hear a girl call out in a complaining tone.

Girl: Hey!

They also hear a loud noise, as though something was just broken. Xander 
pulls a stake out of his jacket. Buffy takes it from him and heads in 
the direction of the noise.

Willow:  That's not what making out sounds like, unless I'm doing it 
wrong.

They all follow Buffy.

Cut to the couple from the dance floor. The boy has the girl up against 
a section of temporary chain link fencing that's leaning against the 
building.

Boy:  Stop struggling. This won't hurt.

The boy vamps out and moves in to bite the girl. She grabs him by the 
neck, pushes him away a bit and elbow jabs him in the face. He staggers 
back and regains his balance as she jumps onto a crate. She does a 
jumping roundhouse kick to his face, knocking him to the pavement. Buffy 
arrives. The girl notices her and approaches, smiling.

Girl:  It's okay, I got it. You're, uh, Buffy, right?

Buffy is taken aback. Just as she's about to answer, the vampire comes 
up behind the girl and grabs her by the shoulders. She snaps her head 
back to head butt him in the face and grabs onto his arm.

Faith:  I'm Faith.

She twists the vampire around and shoves him into the section of chain 
link fence.

Oz:  (to Willow) I'm gonna go out on a limb and say there's a new Slayer 
in town.

Faith knees him in the gut from behind. The vamp whirls around and tries 
to backhand punch her, but she easily ducks it. She punches him in the 
gut and then again in the face. Everyone just watches her fight. Xander 
follows her moves with jerks of his head. She does a high side kick to 
the vampire's jaw, grabs onto his shirt and neck and throws him to the 
ground. The vamp does a no-hand front roll to control his fall while 
Faith reaches over to Buffy for the stake and jerks it from her hand.

Faith:  Can I borrow that?

The vampire uses the momentum of his roll to get back to his feet and 
runs at Faith, throwing a punch as he comes. She ducks it, hooks her 
hand on his shoulder, turns him around and pushes him back into the 
fence. She raises the stake and jams it cleanly into his chest and jerks 
it back out. The vampire instantly crumbles into ashes. Buffy stares in 
confused amazement. Faith faces her and hands her back the stake.

Faith:  Thanks, B. Couldn't have done it without you.

She just continues walking past them all. Buffy turns to stare after 
her, unsure how to react.

                    ~~~~~~~~~~ Part 2 ~~~~~~~~~~

The Bronze. The camera follows a waitress holding a tray of six muffins 
past the pastry counter and into an alcove where Faith has joined the 
gang and is relating one of her stories to them.

Faith:  The whole summer it was, like, the worst heat wave. So it's 
about a hundred and eighteen degrees and I'm sleeping without a stitch 
on.

The waitress sets the tray on a table and leaves.

Faith:  And all of a sudden, I hear this screaming from outside. So I go 
tearing out, stark nude, (Xander looks down at her body, licking his 
lips) and this church bus has broke down, and there's these three vamps 
feasting (Buffy listens calmly) on half the Baptists in South Boston. 
(Willow listens intently) So I waste the vamps, and the preacher comes 
up, and he's hugging me like there's no tomorrow, when all of a sudden, 
the cops pull up and they arrested us both.

She reaches for a muffin. Xander stares blankly ahead of himself, trying 
to picture the scene.

Xander:  Wow. They should film that story and show it every Christmas.

Cordelia, sitting next to him with her arms and legs crossed, turns her 
head to him and gives him a look. Faith tears into the muffin.

Faith:  God, I could eat a horse. Isn't it crazy how slayin' just always 
makes you hungry and horny? (gobbles a piece)

The others all turn their heads to look at Buffy. She stares back wide-
eyed and suddenly uncomfortable.

Buffy:  Well... Sometimes I-I crave a nonfat yogurt afterwards.

A look of sudden revelation washes across Cordelia's face, and she 
smiles.

Cordelia:  I get it.

Faith gives her a confused look.

Cordelia:  Not the horny thing. Yuck! But the two Slayer thing. There 
was one, and then Buffy died for, like, two minutes, so then Kendra was 
called, and then when she died, Faith was called.

Faith gives her a nod.

Willow:  But why were you called here?

Faith:  Well, I wasn't. My Watcher went off to some retreat thing in 
England, and so I skipped out. I figured this was my chance to meet the 
infamous Buff and compare notes. (Buffy gives her a little smile) So, B, 
did you really use a rocket launcher one time?

Buffy:  Uh, yeah, (leans forward) actually, it's a funny story. There 
was...

Xander:  (interrupts) So what was the, uh, story about that alligator? 
You, uh, said something... before.

Faith:  (with lots of gesturing) Oh, there's this Big Daddy Vampire out 
of Missouri who used to keep them as pets. So he's got me rasslin' one 
of 'em, okay? The thing must have been twelve feet (3.7 m) long and 
I'm...

Xander: (interrupts) So was this, um, ahem, also naked?

Faith:  (teases) Well, the alligator was. (laughs)

Xander smiles at her and laughs also.

Cordelia:  Xander? (glares when he looks) Find a new theme.

Faith:  (shakes her head) I tell ya, I never had more trouble than that 
damn vamp. (to Buffy) So what about you? What was your toughest kill?

Buffy lowers her eyes and has another flashback to stabbing Angel in the 
chest with the sword, and his look of surprise and pain. She comes back 
and shakes herself out of her reverie.

Buffy:  Um, well, you know, (smiles weakly) they're all difficult, I 
guess.

Faith waits for a story and takes a drink.

Buffy:  Uh... (remembers) Oh! Oh, do you guys remember the Three?

They all look back inquisitively.

Buffy:  That's right, you never met the Three. Well, there was three...

Oz:  (interrupts) Something occurring. Uh, now, you both kill vamps, and 
who could blame you, but, I'm, I'm wondering about your position on 
werewolves.

Willow:  (put her hand on his shoulder) Oz is a werewolf.

Buffy:  It's a long story. (grins)

Oz:  (shrugs) I got bit.

Buffy:  Apparently not that long.

Faith:  (considers briefly) Hey, as long as you don't go scratchin' at 
me or humpin' my leg, we're five-by-five, you know?

Oz:  Fair enough.

Faith:  The vamps, though, they better get their asses to DEFCON ONE, 
(points to Buffy) 'cause you and I are gonna have fun, you know, 
Watcherless and fancy-free. (smiles)

Buffy:  Watcherless?

Faith:  (looks around at everyone) Didn't yours go to England, too?

Cut to the library. Giles stands at the end of the table with his hands 
in his pockets, reminiscing about the gatherings.

Giles:  There's a Watchers' retreat every year in the Cotswolds. (walks 
to the other end of the table) It's a lovely spot. It's very s-serene. 
(everyone listens) There's horse riding and hiking and punting (smiles) 
and lectures and discussions. It-i-it's... it's a great honor to be 
invited. (a tad bitter) Or so I'm told.

Faith:  Oh, it's boring. Way too stuffy for a guy like you.

Buffy:  Um, maybe I should introduce you again. Faith, this is *Giles*.

Willow smirks.

Faith:  I see him. If I'd've known they came *that* young and cute, I 
would've requested a transfer.

Giles takes off his glasses.

Buffy:  (grossed out) Raise your hand if 'ew'. (raises her hand)

Xander raises his, but hides it by scratching his cheek.

Giles:  (chuckles) Well, um, uh, leaving aside for a moment my, uh, 
youth and beauty, (goes to the copier) I'd-I'd say it was, um, (grabs 
the newspaper) fortuitous that Faith arrived when she did. (comes back 
with it)

Willow:  (shoots up her finger) (loudly) Aha!

They all look at her.

Willow:  Sorry. I just meant... (shoots up her finger again) (loudly) 
aha! There's big evil brewin'. You'll never be bored here, Faith. (Faith 
grins at her) 'Cause this is Sunnydale, home of the big brewin' evil.

Giles:  Yes, well, I don't know how big an evil it is, but, uh, two 
people have disappeared from the Sunset Ridge District.

He hands Buffy the newspaper. She and Faith quickly scan the article.

Buffy:  Well, I'm good for patrolling. Late-ish, though. I promised Mom 
I'd be home for dinner.

She hands Xander the paper. Willow nods toward Faith while looking at 
Buffy with big eyes. Buffy turns her eyes to Faith, and gets the hint.

Buffy:  Um, to which you're also invited, of course, dinner with us.

Faith:  Dyin' to meet the fam. I'm in.

Buffy:  Great! Great, then we can patrol, (less than thrilled) also 
together.

Willow:  Hey, don't you have that health science makeup?

Buffy:  Oh, yeah. Actually, I could use a little coaching.

Willow hops off of the table, smiling. Xander grabs his things behind 
him.

Willow:  (to Faith) You know, you can hang out with us while she's 
testing. You wanna?

Buffy mumbles to herself, realizing she's just become invisible to them.

Xander:  Say yes and, uh, bring your stories. (smiles as he walks out 
past Faith)

Buffy:  (goes to the table) You guys go. It's fine. Fine! I'll just... 
(sits) sit.

Faith:  (to Buffy) Okay. Hey, later. (to Giles) *We* will talk weapons.

She follows Xander and Willow out of the library. Giles watches her go.

Giles:  (points) This, um, this new girl seems to (sits on the table) 
have a lot of zest. (smiles)

Buffy glares up at him. He quickly changes the subject.

Giles:  I-I-I've been having a little problem with the, uh, binding 
spell for Acathla. I-I-I'm lacking the, the requisite details to perform 
it correctly. Now, physical location. Acathla was facing south?

Buffy:  Mm-hm. (points to three positions on the table) Acathla, Angel, 
me. (makes a jabbing gesture through the three positions) Sword. (looks 
up at him)

Giles:  Now, see, that's what I thought, but I...

Buffy:  (interrupts and stands up) Giles, look, I've got makeup tests to 
pass, (pulls on her backpack) missing people in Sunset Ridge, and a 
zesty new Slayer to feed. (grabs her books) Next time I kill Angel, I'll 
video it.

She walks out of the library to go take her test. Giles seems confused.

Cut to the hall. Willow, Faith and Xander come in through the door at 
the end of the hall. They are giving Faith the tour.

Willow:  And over here, we have the cafeteria, (points at the door) 
where we were mauled by snakes.

Xander:  (points down) And this is the spot where Angel tried to kill 
Willow.

Willow:  Oh, (points, smiling) and over there in the lounge is where 
Spike and his gang nearly massacred us all on Parent-Teacher night.

Faith is finding it all pretty incredible, and smiles. They reach the 
stairs, and Willow points up to the landing.

Willow:  Oh, a-and up those stairs, I was sucked into a muddy grave.

They stop walking.

Xander:  And they say young people don't learn anything in high school 
nowadays, but, um, I've learned to be afraid. (smiles)

Willow nods in agreement.

Faith:  (grins and laughs) You guys are a hoot and a half. If I'd had 
friends like you in high school, I... probably still would've dropped 
out. But I might've been sad about it, you know?

Willow and Xander give her understanding nods and exchange a smile.

Faith:  (crosses her arms) Hey, so what's up with B? I mean, she seems 
wound kinda tight. Needs to find the fun a little? Like you two.

Willow:  Well, um, she...

Faith:  (spies the drinking fountain and points) Oh. Water.

Willow and Xander turn to watch her go to the fountain. Cordelia 
approaches behind them.

Xander:  Oh, and then the alligator story! (to Willow) She's got 
something, doesn't she?

Cordelia:  What is it with you and Slayers? (Xander jerks around to face 
her) Maybe I should dress up as one and put a stake to your throat.

Xander:  Please, God, don't let that be sarcasm. (takes her arm and 
smiles)

The camera moves over to Faith finishing her drink. Scott comes out of 
the cafeteria and almost bumps into her. She jumps back.

Scott:  Oh. Excuse me.

Faith:  Sorry. (looks at him curiously) I know you from somewhere.

Scott:  (recognizes her also) The Bronze. You're friends with Buffy, 
right?

Faith:  Yeah. I'm Faith. (holds out her hand)

Scott:  (accepts it) I'm Scott. Nice to meet you.

Faith:  Nice to meet you!

They let go of their handshake. Buffy comes hopping down the stairs and 
joins Xander, Cordelia and Willow.

Buffy:  Well, I'm two for two with makeup tests. Proud, yes, but also 
humble in this time of... (notices them all staring) We're looking at 
what?

She looks also and sees Scott talking and laughing with Faith.

Cordelia:  Does anyone believe that is her actual hair color?

She rolls her eyes in disbelief and walks away.

Willow:  I haven't seen him laugh like that. Hey, maybe Faith and Scott 
could hit it off. (Buffy looks at her) I mean, if you're done with him. 
(realizes she's doing it again) Not that you used him.

She furrows her brow, sighs and shuts up while she still can. Buffy 
looks back at the two of them talking.

Buffy:  Well, I... hadn't definitely one hundred percent said no for all 
time. It's just, you know... You don't enter into these things lightly, 
you know. There's, there's repercussions to consider and...

She sees Willow and Xander exchange a look.

Buffy:  Why am I seeing a look?

Willow:  (looks at her) You really *do* need to find the fun, B.

Buffy looks at Willow in surprise.

Willow:  Uffy.

Buffy sighs and decides to head over to Faith and Scott.

Buffy:  (smiles) Hey!

Scott:  Hey, Buffy! Uh, Faith has been telling me tall tales.

Buffy:  (smiles big) She's funny. (takes her arm) And she's leaving. We 
have to go.

Scott:  (disappointed) Oh...

Faith:  Bye.

Buffy pulls her away and down the hall.

Faith:  (gestures back) He's a cutie. Is he seeing anybody?

Buffy just ignores her and continues down the hall.

Cut to a warehouse where Kakistos and Trick are holed up. The lights are 
low and candles are burning everywhere. Trick is typing away on his 
palm-top computer.

Kakistos:  Mr. Trick, talk to me.

Trick:  (looks up) Check this out. (walks over) This town, this very 
street, wired for fiber optics. (grins widely) See, we jack in a T-3, 
um, twenty-five hundred megs per, we have the whole *world* at our 
fingertips.

Kakistos looks up at him, not really understanding.

Trick:  What I'm saying is, (grins) we stay local--where the humans are 
jumpin' and the cotton is high--but we live global. I mean, you know, 
you get the hankering for the blood of a fifteen-year-old Filipina, and 
I'm on the 'Net and she's here the next day, express air. (smiles 
widely)

Kakistos:  (losing his patience) I want the blood of the Slayer.

Trick can't believe Kakistos' shortsightedness, and looks aside for a 
moment.

Trick:  On that note, there's good news and bad. Rumor has it that this 
town already has a Slayer, which makes two. (shakes his head) I'm not 
real sure how that happened.

Kakistos:  (jumps up from his chair, shouting) I don't care if there're 
a *hundred* Slayers! I'll kill them all! (indicates his scarred, blinded 
eye) She's going to pay for what she did to me.

Trick:  (nods) Yeah, she is. (there's a knocking at the door) I'm 
running a computer check on every hotel, rooming house and youth hostel 
in town. (goes to get a welder's glove) Meanwhile, as soon as the sun 
goes down, (pulls on the glove) we're out in force. (heads for the door) 
Food's here, boys.

He opens the door, hiding behind it from the bright daylight outside. 
The Pizza Man looks in.

Pizza Man:  You guys order a piz...

Trick lunges out with his gloved arm, grabs him by the shirt and yanks 
him in. The pizza falls to the floor along with the delivery man as 
Trick slams the door shut again. He roars and bends down for lunch.

Cut to the Summers house. Joyce is serving dinner to Faith.

Joyce:  So you're a Slayer, too. Isn't that interesting! (smiles) Do you 
like it? (sets down the bowl)

Faith:  God, I love it!

Buffy:  (wants the bowl) Uh, Mom?

Joyce:  (waves her off) Uh, just a second, honey. (scoops broccoli onto 
Faith's plate) You know, Buffy never talks that way. Why do you love it?

Buffy gives up and grabs a pair of tongs to take some fries for herself.

Faith:  Well, when I'm fighting, it's like the whole world goes away and 
I only know one thing: that I'm gonna win and they're gonna lose. I like 
that feelin'. (digs into her food)

Joyce smiles at that and takes her seat.

Buffy:  Well, sure. Beats that dead feeling you get when they win and 
you lose.

Faith:  I don't let that kind of negative thinking in.

Joyce:  (points at Faith) Right. (shakes her finger) Right. That could 
get you hurt. Buffy can be awfully negative sometimes. (to Buffy) See, 
honey, you gotta fight that. (smiles)

Buffy:  (smiles back weakly) I'm working on it. (keeps taking fries)

Joyce:  (notices Faith's empty glass) Oh, Faith, can I get you another 
soft drink?

Faith:  (hands over the glass) Oh, you bet.

Joyce:  Right. (goes into the kitchen)

Faith:  She's really cool, huh?

Buffy:  Best mom ever. (looks back into the kitchen) Excuse me.

She gets up and goes. Faith grabs a bottle of hot sauce, gives it a 
sniff and grimaces.

Cut to the kitchen. Joyce gets out a bottle of cola, brings it to the 
island and opens it.

Joyce:  I like this girl, Buffy. (pours the soda)

Buffy:  She's very personable. (sits on a stool) She gets along with my 
friends, my Watcher, my mom. (leans back and looks into the dining room) 
Look, now she's getting along with my fries. (leans forward)

Joyce:  (closes the soda bottle) Now, Buffy...

Buffy:  Plus, at school today, she was making eyes at my not-boyfriend. 
This is creepy.

Joyce:  (crosses her arms) Does anybody else think Faith is creepy?

Buffy:  (pouts) No, but I'm the one getting single-white-femaled here.

Joyce:  (nods) It's probably good you were an only child.

Buffy:  Mom, I'm just getting my life back. I'm not looking to go 
halfsies on it.

Joyce:  Well, there are some things I'd be happy to see you share. Like 
the slaying. I mean, two of you fighting is safer than one, right?

Buffy:  I guess.

Joyce:  Unless, I mean, you heard her. She *loves* the slaying. (leans 
over the island) Couldn't she take over for you?

Buffy:  Mom, no one can take over for me.

Joyce:  But you're going to college next year. I think it would be...

Buffy:  Mom, the only way you get a new Slayer is when the old Slayer 
dies.

This quickly registers in Joyce's mind, and she straightens back up. 
Buffy realizes she's just said way too much.

Joyce:  Then that means you... (upset) When did you die? You never told 
me you died!

Buffy:  No, i-it was just for a few minutes.

Joyce:  (starts to pace nervously) Oh, I hate this. I hate your life.

Buffy:  Mom, I...

Joyce:  (faces her daughter) Look, I-I know you didn't choose this, I 
know it chose you. (takes a breath) I have tried to march in the 'Slayer 
Pride' parade, but... (suddenly very solemn) I don't want you to die.

Buffy lowers her eyes, shakes her head and gives her mother a warm hug.

Joyce:  Oh...

Buffy:  I'm not gonna die. I know how to do my job. (releases the hug) 
Besides, like you said, I've got help now.

She looks into the living room to see Faith picking at everything in 
sight and stuffing it into her mouth.

Buffy:  (raises her eyebrows) I've got all the help I can stand.

Cut to an alley at night. There is construction equipment lying around. 
Buffy and Faith come strolling along, looking around for any vampires.

Faith:  Didn't we, um, do this street already?

Buffy:  Funny thing about vamps. They'll hit a street even *after* 
you've been there. It's like they have no manners.

Faith:  (shrugs) Mm. You've been doing this the longest.

Buffy:  I have.

Faith:  Yeah. Maybe a little *too* long.

Buffy:  (looks at Faith) Excuse me? What's that supposed to mean?

Faith:  Nothing.

Buffy:  You got a problem?

Faith:  (spreads her arms) I'm five-by-five, B, living entirely large, 
actually wondering about (points at her) *your* problem.

Buffy:  Well, I may not sleep in the nude and rassle alligators...

Faith:  Maybe it's time you started, 'cause obviously *something* in 
your bottle needs uncorking. What is it, (gestures wildly) the, the 
Angel thing? (keeps looking around)

Buffy:  (stops in her tracks) What do you know about Angel?

Faith:  (faces her, copping an attitude) Just what your friends tell me: 
big love, big loss. You oughta deal and move on, but you're not.

Buffy:  (steps closer) I got an idea: how about from now on, we don't 
hear from you on Angel or anything else in my life. Which, by the way, 
is *my* life.

Faith:  What are you getting so strung out for, B?

Buffy:  Why are your lips still moving, F?

Faith:  Did I just hear a threat?

Buffy:  Would you like to?

Faith:  Wow. Think you can take me?

Buffy:  Yeah. (looks over Faith's shoulder) I just hope they can't.

She shoves Faith aside as a vampire attacks, making her fall to the 
ground. Buffy punches the vamp in the gut, and he goes flying onto his 
back. A second one comes in and takes a swing at Buffy, but she ducks 
him. She middle blocks his wide punch and low blocks his next punch. She 
then punches him in the face and the gut. She takes his head in both 
hands and twists. His body follows the motion, and he log rolls down to 
the ground. Faith gets back up and grabs a nearby trashcan. A third 
vampire runs in and punches Buffy in the face. He goes around behind her 
and trips her with his outstretched leg, making her fall to the ground. 
Behind him Faith crams the trashcan down over his head, blinding him. 
She takes hold of the can and pushes him into a sheet of drywall. The 
board breaks and falls on top of him as he falls over. One of the others 
dives for Buffy, but she rolls out of the way and onto her feet. 
Immediately she crouches down and stakes him in the chest. He bursts 
into ashes. The other one grabs her from behind and pulls her away. 
Faith's opponent is back up, and she spins around once and does a side 
kick, getting him in the stomach. The kick forces him back, and he 
knocks his head hard into a low pipe behind him. Buffy's attacker throws 
her onto a stack of plywood. She hits the wall behind it, but quickly 
gets to her feet. The vampire jumps onto the stack just in time to be 
side kicked in the stomach. He flies back and lands on a dumpster hard 
on his back, rolls off and falls to the ground. Faith's assailant 
punches her in the face, but she isn't fazed in the least. She blocks 
two punches with her forearms and then backhand punches him in the face.

Faith:  My dead mother hits harder than that!

She grabs him by the sweater and throws him onto a couple of sheets of 
drywall laid across two sawhorses. They break instantly under his 
weight. She runs up to him, grabs his sweater and punches him in the 
face. Buffy flips her opponent in an awkward open front layout, and he 
lands hard on a large duct pipe, which crushes under him. She looks over 
at Faith, who is whaling away on her vampire with continuous punches to 
the face.

Buffy:  Faith! Stake him already and give me a hand!

Still another vampire grabs her by her jacket and throws her to the 
ground. She lands on her stomach near a piece of wood lying there. The 
vampire and her original attacker both make a grab for her. Meanwhile 
Faith keeps whaling on her victim.

Faith:  This is *me*, (punch) you un (punch) dead (punch) bastard!

Buffy reaches desperately for the piece of two-by-four in front of her.

Vampire:  For Kakistos we live! For Kakistos you'll die!

Buffy glances up at him for an instant, then continues desperately 
clawing for the hunk of wood.

Buffy:  (screams) FAITH!

Faith pays her no attention and just keeps punching her vampire to a 
pulp.

Buffy:  OH!

                    ~~~~~~~~~~ Part 3 ~~~~~~~~~~

The alley. Buffy keeps reaching for the two-by-four. Faith continues her 
pounding. Buffy finally manages to grab the board, and she swings it up 
and beans one of the vampires in the face with it, and turning to the 
other, push kicks him off of her. She quickly gets to her feet and looks 
over at Faith.

Buffy:  Faith!

The one she kicked off makes a grab at her from behind, and she 
instinctively turns and jams the makeshift stake home. The vampire 
crumbles to ashes. She drops the hunk of wood, reaches into her jacket 
for a proper stake and heads over to Faith. Faith is still whaling on 
the vampire, long after he's too dazed to fight back.

Faith:  You (punch) can't (punch) touch (punch) me!

She shakes the vampire a bit before going back to punching him. Buffy 
comes up behind her, grabs her by the waist and pulls her off of him. 
She them thrusts down with her stake and dusts him. Without skipping a 
beat she confronts Faith with her behavior.

Buffy:  What is wrong with you?

Faith:  What are you talking about?

Buffy:  I'm talking about you 'living large' on that vampire!

Faith:  Gee, if doing violence to vampires upsets you, I think you're in 
the wrong line of work!

Buffy:  Yeah, or maybe you like it a little too much.

Faith:  I was getting the job done.

Buffy:  The job is to slay demons! *Not* beat them to a bloody pulp 
while their friends corner me!

Faith:  (shrugs) I thought you could handle yourself. (walks off)

Buffy lets out an exasperated sigh.

Cut to the school halls the next day. Buffy and Giles come out of the 
cafeteria and walk toward the library.

Giles:  What you must realize, Buffy, is that you and Faith have very 
different temperaments. (sips his coffee)

Buffy:  Yeah, and mine's the sane one. (Giles chuckles) The girl's not 
playing with a full deck, Giles. She has almost no deck. She has a 
three.

Giles:  You said yourself that she-she killed one. Sh-she-she's just a 
plucky fighter who got a little carried away. Which is natural. She's 
focused on the slaying. She doesn't have a whole other life here, as you 
do.

Buffy:  She doesn't need a life. She has mine.

Giles:  I think you're being a little...

Buffy:  No, I'm being a lot. (Giles sips again) I know that. But she 
nearly got us both killed. The girl needs help.

Giles:  All right. I'll see if I can reach her Watcher at the retreat. 
They're (checks his watch) eight hours ahead now. I guess they're 
probably sitting down to a nightcap.

Buffy continues on toward the library, but Giles just stands there and 
starts to stare off into space.

Giles:  I wonder if they still kayak. I used to love a good kayak. 
(Buffy comes back) You see, t-they don't even consider... (sees her 
looking at him) Sorry. I digress. (they both continue) The, um, vampires 
that attacked you, can you furnish me with some details that might help 
me trace their lineage? I mean, ancient or-or-or modern dress. Amulets, 
cultish tattoos... (sips his coffee)

Buffy:  Uh, no tats. Crappy dressers. And, uh... Oh, the one that nearly 
bit me mentioned something about kissing toast. (a spark of recognition 
appears on Giles' face) He lived for kissing toast.

Giles:  You mean 'Kakistos'?

Buffy:  (tries to remember) Maybe it was taquitos. Maybe he lived for 
taquitos. (looks at him) What?

Giles:  Kakistos. (heads into the library)

Buffy:  (frowns) Is that bad? (follows him)

Cut into the library. Giles quickly paces in and sets his things on the 
counter.

Giles:  'Kakistos' is Greek. It means the worst of the worst. (Heads 
behind the counter) It's also the name of a vampire so old that his 
hands and feet are cloven.

He goes into his office and comes out with a book, setting it on the 
counter and leafing through it.

Buffy:  Now, this guy shows up two days ago, right? Right around the 
same time my bestest new little sister makes the scene.

Giles:  (looks up and considers) You think he and Faith are connected?

Buffy:  Giles, there are two things that I don't believe in: coincidence 
and leprechauns.

Giles:  Well, Buffy, it's entirely possible that they both arrived here 
by chance simultaneously.

Buffy:  Okay, but I was right about the leprechauns, right?

Giles:  (thinks for a moment) As far as I know, yes.

Buffy:  Good. Okay, you get England on the phone. I'm gonna talk to 
Faith, see if 'khaki trousers' rings...

Giles:  Kakistos.

Buffy:  Kakistos rings a bell. Or an alarm.

Giles:  Right.

Buffy:  Right. (heads out)

Cut to the hall. Buffy strides toward the lounge and is about to round 
the corner toward the exit when Scott approaches her.

Scott:  Hi.

Buffy:  (surprised to see him) Scott!

Scott:  How are you?

Buffy:  Uh, o-okay. You know, I-I gotta...

Scott:  I know, be somewhere else, right? Think of this as my last-ditch 
effort. I realize that one more is gonna qualify as stalking. 
(nervously) I've given it a lot of thought--some might say too much 
thought--to, to how I might be a part of your life. It begins with 
conversation. We all know this. Maybe over a cup of coffee, or maybe at 
the Buster Keaton festival playing on State Street all this weekend.

Buffy finds this to be a very sweet overture and smiles warmly. She 
takes a moment to consider his offer.

Buffy:  You know, come to think of it, I-I don't think I've given a fair 
chance to... Buster Keaton. I... I like what I've seen of him so far. 
I... I think it might be time to see a little more.

Scott:  (takes and releases a breath, smiling) Keaton is key. Oh. 
(reaches into a pocket) Um, I got you a little present. (pulls out a 
small box) The guy in the retro shop said that it represents friendship, 
(holds it out to her) and that's something I would very much like to 
have with you.

Buffy takes the box, looks up at him and back at the box. She takes off 
the lid and looks at what's inside. It's a Claddagh ring.

Scott:  You like?

She immediately has an anxiety attack, and drops the box. The ring falls 
free of its padding and hits the floor with an echoing clinking. Giles 
comes down the hall toward them just in time to see it fall.

Buffy:  I can't. I-I-I-I can't do this. (takes a quick breath)

Scott bends down to pick up the box and the ring. He looks at her and at 
the ring.

Scott:  Okay. I get the message. (leaves)

Buffy just stands there as if in a trance. Giles reaches out to her.

Giles:  Are you all right?

She shoves off his caring hand, not realizing who it is.

Buffy:  Uh... (looks up) Giles, I, uh... (wipes a tear) Yeah, I'm fine. 
(tries to settle herself) Um, did you reach the retreat?

Giles:  (looks at the floor) Yes, I did.

Buffy:  W-what did her Watcher say?

Giles:  Her Watcher's dead.

Buffy stares back in disbelief.

Cut to a cheap hotel. Cut into a room. The hotel manager is having a 
talk with Faith.

Manager:  The room's eighteen dollars a day. That's every day.

Faith:  Yeah, I know. I'll get it to you by tomorrow, I swear.

Manager:  (sighs and shrugs) It's not like I own the place.

Faith:  (gives him a smile) But I bet you will someday.

Manager:  Not if I listen to broads like you.

Buffy appears at the door and steps in.

Manager:  (to Faith, indicating Buffy) Roommates are extra.

Buffy:  I'm just visiting.

The manager gives up and walks out of the room. Buffy reaches for the 
door to pull it shut.

Faith:  So, what brings you to the poor side of town?

The door slams closed, and Buffy faces Faith.

Buffy:  Cloven Guy. Goes by the name Kakistos.

Faith:  (taken aback) What do you know about Kakistos?

Buffy:  That he's here.

The look on Faith's face betrays her apprehension at hearing this.

Buffy:  We're not happy to see old friends, are we? What'd he do to you?

Faith:  (quickly grabs her bag) It's what I did to him, all right?

She puts it on the bed and starts to stuff her things into it.

Buffy:  And what was that? Faith, you came here for a reason. I can 
help.

Faith:  (looks up from packing) You can mind your own business. (points 
at herself) *I'm* the one that can handle this.

Buffy:  Yeah. You're a real bad-ass when it comes to packing. (gets a 
look from Faith) What was that you said about my problem? Gotta deal and 
move on? Well, we have the 'moving on' part right here. What about 
dealing? Is that just something you're gonna dump on me?

Faith:  (finishes packing) You don't know me. You don't know what I've 
been through. I'll take care of this, all right? (heads for the door)

Buffy:  Like you took care of your Watcher?

This stops Faith cold. She lets go of the doorknob and looks down sadly. 
A moment later she turns to Buffy.

Buffy:  He killed her, didn't he?

Faith:  (angrily) They don't have a word for what he did to her.

There's a knock at the door. Faith looks through the peephole and sees 
that it's the manager, looking very strung out.

Faith:  (sighs) Oh, what now?

Buffy:  Faith, you run, he runs after you.

Faith:  That's where the head start comes in handy.

She opens the door and sees Kakistos standing behind the dead manager, 
holding him up. Faith steps back into the room aghast. Kakistos drops 
the manager's body and smiles at her.

Kakistos:  Faith.

                    ~~~~~~~~~~ Part 4 ~~~~~~~~~~

Faith's hotel room. Kakistos roars and grabs Faith by the neck. She 
grabs his wrist and tries to pull him off of her, but he is too strong.

Faith:  No!

Buffy rushes up between them, shoves Faith back into the room, forcing 
Kakistos to let go, and slams the door on his arm. He yells in anger and 
pain, and eventually has to pull his arm out. Buffy slams the door shut, 
locks it and puts on the safety chain.

Buffy:  I just bought us a little more...

Kakistos punches through the door and tries to reach for Buffy.

Buffy:  ...time!

Faith:  (panics and screams) NO! NOOOOO!

Buffy:  Scream later! Escape now!

She runs for the bathroom dragging Faith behind her. Behind them 
Kakistos kicks in the door. Cut to the alley behind the hotel. The 
bathroom window gets kicked out, and Faith scrambles through. Buffy 
jumps through right behind her.

Buffy:  Let's go!

She takes Faith's hand again, and they start to run. They reach a fork 
in the alley and take the left one. Trick and his thugs reach the 
intersection a moment later. One of them follows the girls. Trick 
signals for two of the others to double back while he and a fourth take 
the right fork. Cut inside a warehouse. Buffy comes crashing in through 
a window, and Faith jumps in behind her. They scramble to their feet and 
see the vampire chasing them run right past.

Buffy:  We're okay. (faces Faith) What happened?

Faith is too freaked out to think straight.

Buffy:  Faith, what happened?

Faith:  (frightened) I... I was *there* when he killed my Watcher, and I 
saw what he did to her... what he was gonna do to me. I tried to stop 
him, but I... I couldn't. And I ran.

Buffy:  (breathing hard) Faith, first rule of slaying: don't die. You 
did the right thing. Okay? You didn't die. Now you do the math. One of 
him, two of us.

Faith:  (looks past Buffy shaking her head) No.

Buffy:  Yes.

Faith:  (getting panicky) No.

Buffy turns around to see what she's looking at. There on the floor lie 
the bodies of the Pizza Man and others.

Faith:  This is his place.

Buffy:  He drove us here.

One of the vampires appears at an entrance and growls at them. They 
begin to run through the warehouse. The vampire gives chase. Two others 
come in the other side and try to head them off. Buffy stops by a 
bucket, and putting her foot in, kicks it into one of the vampire's 
faces. He stumbles backward and over a chair. She does a full spinning 
hook kick to the other vampire and a side kick to another one behind 
her. He falls backwards over a table. Buffy runs and jumps onto the 
table, log rolls over it and kicks him in the back as he tries to get 
back up. Kakistos walks into the building, his one-eyed gaze fixed on 
Faith. Buffy rolls to a stand on the table. She picks up a crowbar and 
swings it baseball style at yet another vampire advancing towards her, 
hitting her squarely in the neck and knocking her down and out. She sees 
Kakistos advancing on Faith.

Buffy:  Faith! (gets her attention) Don't die! (throws her the crowbar)

Faith catches the crowbar in mid-air, but before she can swing it at 
Kakistos, he punches her hard and knocks her into a bunch of large 
wooden beams leaning against the wall. She hits the floor as the beams 
go tumbling. Trick walks in calmly, nodding his head and observing the 
fight. Buffy knife hands her attacker in the neck and throws him into an 
assisted front tuck off of the table. Kakistos calmly steps up to Faith 
as she scrambles up against the wall, cowering. He reaches down and 
grabs her by the shirt, picking her up off of the floor.

Faith:  NO!

Once he has her up, he punches her squarely in the face. Buffy is no 
longer on the table, and she roundhouse kicks over it, knocking the legs 
out from under a vampire standing on it. He rolls off of the table and 
onto his back, and Buffy stakes him cleanly. She looks up at Faith being 
whaled on by Kakistos. Behind her the unconscious vampire wakes. 
Kakistos finally hits Faith hard enough to knock her from his own grip 
onto the floor. He roars loudly. Buffy jumps up and runs over to attack 
him. She roundhouse kicks him in the back of the knee, spins around and 
tries to backhand him in the face, but he blocks it. She spins around 
the other way and backhands him in the face. The now wakened vampire 
gets back up from the floor, and Trick comes up behind her.

Trick:  If we don't do something, the Master could get killed.

He considers that for a moment, and decides that wouldn't be such a bad 
thing.

Trick:  Well, our prayers are with him.

He and the vampire turn to leave. Buffy tries to stake Kakistos, but the 
stake can't easily penetrate his thick hide, and so has no effect on 
him. He grabs Buffy by the hair, lifts her and throws her back. Trick 
and the vampire calmly continue on their way out.

Trick:  There's a reason these vengeance crusades are out of style. It's 
the modern vampire who sees the big picture.

Buffy backhands Kakistos, landing a hard punch. He swings at her, but 
she ducks. She stands up and tries to stake him again, but even though 
the stake goes in deeper this time, it still has no effect on him. Again 
he grabs her by the head and shoves her back into the wall. Faith 
recovers from her daze, and sees him looming before her, but looking at 
Buffy instead of at her.

Kakistos:  I guess you need a bigger stake, Slayer! (laughs maniacally)

Faith sees that one of the fallen beams has a broken end. She lifts it 
up over her shoulder, and before Kakistos can turn his attention back 
onto her she thrusts the beam through his chest and out his back. He 
looks down at it and back up at Faith, and then explodes into ashes. 
Buffy stares in amazement. Faith heaves a few heavy breaths. Buffy pulls 
the hair back from her face and steps over to Faith, who looks around to 
make sure nothing else is about to attack. They both look down at the 
pile of ash left by Kakistos.

Buffy:  You hungry?

Faith:  Starved.

They both head out of the building.

Cut to Sunnydale High School the next day. Cut to the library. Giles 
gets up from his desk and comes out to the table in the main room.

Giles:  The council has approved our request. Faith is to stay here 
indefinitely. (walks around the table) I'm to look after you both until 
a new Watcher is assigned. (picks up some papers)

Buffy is sitting on the table and Willow is sitting in a chair.

Buffy:  Good. She really came through in the end. (slides off of the 
table) She had a lot to deal with, but she did it. She got it behind 
her.

Giles:  I'm glad to hear it. (looks over the papers)

Buffy looks down at the table sadly and quietly for a long moment.

Buffy:  Angel was cured.

Giles:  (looks up) I'm sorry?

Buffy:  When I killed him, Angel was cured. (to Willow) Your spell 
worked at the last minute, Will. (Willow looks up, taking it all in) I 
was about to take him out, and, um... something went through him... and 
he was Angel again. He-he didn't remember anything that he'd done. He 
just held me. Um, but i-it was... it was too late, and I, I had to. So 
I, I told him that I loved him... and I kissed him... and I killed him.

She looks down at the table again for another long moment. The others 
stay silent.

Buffy:  I don't know if that helps with your spell or not, Giles.

Giles:  Uh, yes, I, I believe it will.

Willow:  (very sympathetically) I'm sorry.

Buffy:  It's okay. (gives them a little smile) I've been holding on to 
that for so long. Felt good to get it out. (pauses, then smiles thinly) 
I'll see you guys later.

She walks out of the library while looking down at the floor. Willow 
watches her friend go, contemplating the meaning of it all. Giles 
eventually starts to go back to his office. As he walks around Willow 
she gets up from her chair.

Willow:  Giles, I know you don't like me playing with mystical forces, 
but I can really help with this binding spell.

Giles:  There is no spell.

He starts toward his office again. Willow begins to realize that he'd 
made the whole spell issue up to get Buffy to talk and release her inner 
sorrow.

Cut to the halls. Scott comes out of a classroom. Buffy is waiting 
behind the door for him, and steps out into the hall when she sees him 
pass by.

Buffy:  Scott.

Scott:  (stops) Uh, hello. (pulls on his backpack)

Buffy:  Hey. Uh, I was, um, I was waiting for you to get out of class.

Scott:  Oh. Um, why?

Buffy:  Um... There was someone a while ago, and, uh, the ring sort of 
confused me. But I liked what you said about friendship. (begins to 
ramble) I liked it a lot. And Buster Keaton. Big fun. And I'm capable of 
big fun even though there's no earthly way you could possibly know that 
about me. Wow. If I knew I was gonna go on this long, I probably 
would've brought some water. Uh, (exhales) what I'm trying to say is, 
um... if you would still like to go to the film festival--and I would 
understand it if you didn't--I'd pretty much love to go with you.

Scott:  (looks around awkwardly) Uh... Ahem. (shrugs) I don't know, 
Buffy. I'm, I'm really gonna have to think about this.

Buffy nods in understanding. He starts down the hall for a few steps, 
stops and immediately comes back.

Scott:  Okay. You know what, I thought about it, and I'm in. When do you 
want to go?

Buffy:  (smiles) Uh, well, I have one thing that I have to do tonight, 
and then I'm good.

Scott:  (smiles) Good.

Buffy smiles back at him warmly.

Cut to the mansion that night. Cut inside to the great room where 
Acathla stood. Buffy slowly walks in from a side door to the spot where 
she slew Angel. She looks down at the floor, and the tears begin to 
come. She slowly crouches down, and looks at her Claddagh ring.

Buffy:  (quietly) Goodbye.

Gently she places the ring on the floor. She reflects for a moment 
before standing back up, looking at the great hall around her. She turns 
around and slowly starts to walk away toward the main door. The camera 
shows her walking from a high angle, giving a good view of the cavernous 
room. When she's gone, the camera cuts to the ring. The picture fades to 
black.

A moment later a bright beam of light illuminates the ring on the floor. 
It gets more and more intense, and the ring begins to vibrate, clinking 
madly against the marble. Suddenly the room is awash with a blindingly 
bright white light emanating from a dimensional portal opening above the 
ring. A body falls through and hits the stone floor hard. The light 
fades as the portal closes, and a naked man is left lying there. He is 
unsteady as he tries to get up, but he is too weak to do more than lift 
his face. It is Angel, looking very dazed. His breathing is shallow and 
labored, and he shivers violently as he looks up at the room around him.








[an error occurred while processing this directive]


