
   Revelations - Buffy Episode 41 Transcript
   
    
   


Revelations





Written by:  Douglas Petrie
Directed by:  James A. Contner
Transcribed by:  AleXander Thompson

Copyright © 1998 Alexander Thompson

                   ~~~~~~~~~~ Disclaimer ~~~~~~~~~~

I do not own the characters in this story, nor do I own any rights to 
the television show "Buffy the Vampire Slayer". They were created by 
Joss Whedon and belong to him, Mutant Enemy, Sandollar Television, Kuzui 
Enterprises, 20th Century Fox Television and the WB Television Network.

This is not a novelization or a script. It is a straightforward and dry 
transcript of the episode "Revelations". It also includes descriptions 
of the settings, action scenes and camera movements where I felt they 
were needed.

I made every effort to accurately transcribe the dialogue from this 
episode. If you notice anything that is transcribed incorrectly, please 
let me know and I will post an update.                     rev 99.01.10

This episode was originally broadcast on November 17, 1998.

                    ~~~~~~~~~~ Prologue ~~~~~~~~~~

The Bronze. People are coming and going. Cut inside. It's especially 
crowded tonight. Dingoes Ate My Baby (Four Star Mary) are on stage 
finishing the last song of their set, "Run".

Lyrics:  If I could walk out

Oz looks out into the crowd, a smile for Willow on his face. She is 
sitting at a table with Xander and Cordelia. They have to share it with 
some other people, it's so crowded.

Lyrics:  You know I'd never lie

The song ends with Oz's last chord understated and fading. The crowd 
begins to applaud and cheer as Devon takes his bows. Oz lifts his guitar 
from his shoulder, leans the instrument against the back wall of the 
stage and heads down the stairs at the side of the stage to join the 
gang at their table.

Willow:  (smiles) Oz! Hey! Have a seat... Except, we don't have any 
seats.

Oz:  It's okay. I'll just scrunch in.

Willow nudges over a bit with her stool to make room for Oz at the 
table, and bumps into Xander. She gives him a nervous look. Xander 
hurriedly scoots over a bit as well, nudging up hard against Cordelia.

Cordelia:  Xander, why are you giving me a lap dance?

Xander:  (smiles weakly and strokes her arm) What? I just like you.

Cordelia pulls her arm away from him and squirms around a bit to get 
comfortable again.

Willow:  (stammers, smiling nervously) And that's very beautiful. I 
think it's great when two people like two people and want to be close to 
them instead of anyone else.

Oz smiles to himself, enjoying it as always whenever Willow does that 
cute stammering thing.

Xander:  (also nervous) Here, here!

Oz:  Yeah. Well put. (points at a cup) Hey, can I snag a sip?

Willow:  Sure. (reaches for her cup)

Xander:  (reaches also) Yeah, you got it.

Their hands touch as they both reach for her cup. They look at each 
other in surprise and instantly jerk back their arms. In doing so they 
knock a tray of drinks out of the hand of the waitress standing behind 
them. Xander slips off of his stool and tries to catch them, but of 
course he's too late, and can only look down at the spilled drinks. 
Around him the crowd begins to applaud his graceful maneuver. He goes 
with the situation and raises his hands to the crowd in acknowledgment. 
Willow, however, is embarrassed.

Xander:  Thank you! (turns around) Thank you. (waves) Uh, we're here 
through Saturday. Enjoy the veal. (smiles)

Willow is terribly embarrassed now and tries to hide her face. Xander 
gets back on his stool. Oz reaches for a cup on his own.

Cordelia:  Why are you guys so hyper?

Oz takes a drink from Willow's cup.

Willow:  (nervously tries to cover) Hey! Speaking of people and things 
they do that aren't like usual, anyone notice Buffy acting sort of 
different?

Oz grimaces at the drink and puts the cup back on the table.

Xander:  Let's see, uh, killing zombies... uh, torching sewer monsters, 
and... No, that's pretty much the, uh, (grins weakly) same old Buffster.

Willow:  (concerned) Well, I just mean, you know, she's off by herself a 
lot more, and she's kind of... distracted.

Cordelia:  (smiles) Think maybe she has a new honey?

Willow:  A boyfriend? Why wouldn't she tell us?

Cordelia:  Excuse me? When your last steady killed half the class, and 
then your rebound guy sends you a dump-o-gram? It makes a girl shy.

Xander:  But we're the best of Buffy's bestest buds. She'd tell us.

Buffy:  (arrives behind them) Tell you what?

Willow:  About your new boyfriend, who we made up. Unless we didn't? 
(gives her an inquiring look)

Buffy:  (raises her eyebrows) This was a topic of discussion?

Oz:  Well, raised, but never discussed.

Cordelia:  So, are you dating somebody or not?

Buffy angles her eyes up and sways around a bit, considering what she 
should say.

Buffy:  I wouldn't use the word 'dating', (looks at them) but I am going 
out with somebody. Tonight, as a matter of fact.

Willow:  Really? Who?

Faith puts her hand on Xander's shoulder and pulls him aside a little so 
she can squeeze in.

Faith:  Yo, what's up? (nudges Buffy's shoulder) Hey, time to motorvate.

Buffy:  (puts her arm around Faith) Really, we're just good friends.

The two Slayers head out of the club together.

Cut to a cemetery. Buffy and Faith both roll onto their backs, side by 
side, each with a vampire on top of them. Buffy backhand punches her 
attacker while Faith struggles to get control over hers. Buffy's vampire 
tries to punch her, but she redirects his arm to hit the ground next to 
her. Giles watches calmly while sitting behind them on a nearby bench. 
Buffy is still on her back while her assailant is now standing over her, 
throwing punches down at her. Faith log rolls away from them, taking her 
attacker with her. Giles takes off his glasses and begins to clean them.

Faith manages to roll on top of her vampire. She yanks him by the lapels 
of his jacket to a standing position, spins half-way around and throws 
him into a log roll over a stone bench. He hits the ground and keeps on 
rolling. Buffy is up now, and ducks a half-spinning jumping hook kick 
from her vampire, and then sidesteps to avoid a punch. Faith jumps up 
onto the bench and then back down to the ground. Her attacker aims a 
punch at her face, but rethinks his maneuver and decides to snap kick 
her in the gut. Thinking quickly, Faith grabs his foot and throws it 
over his head, forcing him to flip over in a back layout. He lands hard 
on his stomach. Buffy throws a punch at her assailant's face, but he 
ducks it. She tries for another one, but he blocks it. She then aims for 
his stomach with another punch, but is blocked yet again. The vampire 
tries to punch her, but she latches onto his arm and yanks him 
backwards, then forwards, and twists his arm, sending him flipping onto 
his back. Giles calmly watches and takes notes.

Faith has a firm grip on her attacker, and throws his head backward, 
sending him flying backwards onto a bench. His momentum carries him 
sliding over it. Faith jumps up onto the bench, following him over, 
ready to attack. Buffy sends her vampire spinning back to the ground 
with a two-kick combination of a roundhouse followed by a hook kick. She 
pauses for a moment to let him get back up, and then roundhouse kicks 
him in the gut, followed immediately by a punch to his face as the 
momentum of her kick carries her around. Giles picks up his cup of 
coffee and continues his calm vigilance.

Faith jumps down from the bench and roundhouse kicks her vampire in the 
face. Buffy roundhouse kicks hers again in the stomach. Faith punches 
her vampire in the stomach and takes aim with her stake. Buffy shoves 
hers against Faith's, and they end up back to back. The Slayers both 
plunge their stakes into their respective demons simultaneously, causing 
them both to explode into ashes. After the dust settles, they give each 
other a high-five and head over to Giles.

Buffy:  Synchronized slaying.

Faith:  New Olympic category?

Buffy:  (to Giles) Whadaya think?

Giles lowers his coffee cup, but keeps it held at mouth level.

Gwendolyn:  Sloppy.

They all turn to look at the woman who's just walked into view. Her hair 
is pulled up in a severe hair style, and she has a very serious look on 
her face.

Gwendolyn:  You telegraph punches, leave blind sides open and, uh, for a 
school-night slaying, take entirely too much time. Which one of you is 
Faith?

Giles looks back at the girls.

Faith:  Depends. Who the hell are you?

Giles turns back to the woman.

Gwendolyn:  Gwendolyn Post, Mrs. Your new Watcher.

The two Slayers exchange a look, then look over at Giles. He is still 
holding his cup and staring at Mrs. Post, too dumbfounded to speak.

Opening credits roll. Buffy's theme plays.

                    ~~~~~~~~~~ Part 1 ~~~~~~~~~~

The library. Giles is leaning against the stair railing, cleaning his 
glasses. Buffy is sitting near the middle of the large central table. 
There are several books lying open on it. Faith is standing by a corner 
of the table, addressing Mrs. Post, who is looking through some of 
Giles' collection.

Faith:  I'm telling you, I don't need a new Watcher. No offense, lady. 
(Gwendolyn looks at her) I just have this problem with authority 
figures. They end up kind of dead.

She nods sarcastically and takes a seat next to Buffy.

Gwendolyn:  (walking past the table) Duly noted, and fortunately, it's 
not up to you.

Buffy and Faith exchange a look. Gwendolyn walks around the table below 
the railing of the upper level, looking around at the few stacks there 
are in the study area of the library, apparently unaware that the main 
stacks are up the stairs and through a set of French doors, well out of 
view.

Gwendolyn:  Mr. Giles, where do you keep the rest of your books?

Giles:  I-I'm sorry. (slips on his glasses) The rest?

Gwendolyn:  Yes, the actual library.

Giles gives her a confused look.

Gwendolyn:  Oh. (smiles thinly) I see.

Giles:  I can assure you, Mrs. Post, this is the finest occult reference 
collection...

Gwendolyn:  (interrupts) ...this side of the Atlantic, I'm sure. Do you 
have Hume's Paranormal Encyclopedia?

Giles looks away, knowing that while his collection is superior, it is 
still not complete.

Gwendolyn:  The Labyrinth Maps of Malta?

Buffy gives him a hopeful look.

Giles:  It's on order.

Gwendolyn:  Well, I suppose that you have Sir Robert Kane's Twilight 
Compendium?

Giles:  Oh! Uh... (looks around) Yes, I... (spots the book) Yes! (pulls 
it out) Yes, I do. (holds it up)

Gwendolyn:  (unimpressed) Of course you do. (paces past him) I have been 
sent by the council for a very important reason. Faith needs a Watcher. 
I am to act in that capacity and report back.

Faith:  (leans forward in her chair) Excuse me, Mary Poppins, you don't 
seem to be listening.

Giles:  (interrupts) Faith, if the council feels that you need closer 
observation, then... we will all, of course, cooperate.

Faith leans back again, not at all happy with the situation.

Gwendolyn:  The council wishes me to report on the *entire* situation 
here, (to Giles) including you.

That takes Giles by surprise.

Buffy:  Mm! Academic probation's not so funny today, huh, Giles? (rolls 
her eyes innocently)

Giles glares at her. She just gives it right back to him.

Gwendolyn:  The fact is, there is talk in the council that you have 
become a bit too... (inhales) American.

Giles:  (taken aback) Me?

Buffy:  (surprised) Him?

Gwendolyn:  A demon named Lagos is coming here to the Hellmouth. 
(condescendingly) Mr. Giles, an illustration of Lagos, if you please.

Giles:  (a bit flustered) Oh, uh... (looks at the books on the table) 
Yes. Uh...

He sits at the table and begins to look through one of the books.

Gwendolyn:  Perhaps later.

Giles stops looking, very taken aback. He begins to seethe.

Gwendolyn:  Lagos seeks the Glove of Myhnegon. No record of this glove's 
full power exists, but we do know it is highly dangerous and must not 
fall into the hands of a demon. Lagos must be stopped.

Giles folds his hands over his books and looks up at her.

Giles:  What do you propose?

Gwendolyn:  Well, if it's not too radical a suggestion, I thought we 
might kill him.

Giles turns his head away from her and takes off his glasses.

Gwendolyn:  I suggest two Slayers at full strength for a coordinated 
hunt.

Buffy gives Faith a look. Faith just gives Gwendolyn an even stare.

Gwendolyn:  We believe the glove to be buried in a tomb somewhere, so 
Lagos will be headed for the cemetery.

Giles:  There is more than one in Sunnydale.

Gwendolyn:  I see. How many?

Giles:  Uh, twelve, within the city limits.

Gwendolyn:  (takes a deep breath) Well, we'll just have to take them one 
at a time.

Giles puts his glasses back on and starts to look through his books 
again.

Gwendolyn:  Anything in your books that might pinpoint the exact 
location of the tomb would be useful, but then, we cannot ask for 
miracles.

Giles lets his book drop to the table and makes a point of looking 
directly away from her, rubbing his fingers, keeping his cool.

Gwendolyn:  We will begin tomorrow at sunset. Faith... (Faith almost 
startles) With me, please.

She gives Faith a thin smile and walks from the library. Faith gives 
Buffy a glance, then follows her out. Giles visibly relaxes when they've 
gone.

Giles:  That was bracing.

He slaps his glasses onto the table and leans his lips into his fist.

Buffy:  Interesting lady. Can we kill her?

Giles:  (lowers his fist) I think the council might frown upon that.

His expression indicates he's considering it anyway, but soon discards 
the notion.

Giles:  Well... (stands up) How do you feel about a spot of training?

Cut to Angel's mansion. He and Buffy are practicing T'ai Chi in front of 
the great fireplace. Angel concentrates on the exercises, but Buffy 
watches his moves and does her best to mirror them. They each begin with 
their arms stretched high above and ahead of them, hands together. They 
lower their arms to waist level with a graceful bend at the elbows. 
Buffy glances over at Angel, watching his elegant movements. She turns 
her attention back to the exercise, and crosses her right wrist over her 
left. They both sweep their crossed arms in a wide arc from left to 
right, and then draw their hands in to their waists and make a quarter 
turn to their left, so that Buffy has her back to Angel. They both 
extend their arms and slowly raise them, never stopping their fluid 
movements, until their hands are again held high. Angel takes the two 
steps over to Buffy and puts his hands over hers. Buffy looks up at his 
hands on hers as he pulls her arms down and around her. She slowly turns 
to face him and angles her face up toward him. Their lips almost meet 
when Buffy suddenly pulls away and walks over to one of the two couches 
set at right angles to each other to get her things.

Buffy:  Uhh... I gotta go. Big night for us Slayer types.

Angel turns away, a confused expression on his face. Buffy pulls on her 
backpack.

Buffy:  People to see, demons to kill. (starts to leave) Better hurry 
before somebody figures out what we're doing.

Angel:  (pulls on his shirt) What are we doing?

Buffy:  (stops) Training. (quietly) And almost kissing.

Angel looks at her and steps toward her as he buttons his shirt. Buffy 
turns to face him.

Buffy:  Sorry. It's just... (smiles weakly) old habit. (loses the smile) 
Bad, bad habit to be broken.

Angel:  It's hard.

Buffy:  It's not hard. (with resolve) Cold turkey. That's the key to 
quitting.

They both look at each other for a long moment, knowing it's just not 
that easy.

Buffy:  (weakly and desperately) You think they make a patch for this?

Angel:  You have to go.

Buffy:  I really do.

Angel looks away as Buffy turns again to go. She only gets a couple of 
steps when she sighs and turns to face Angel again.

Buffy:  I'm gonna try and vent a little hormonal angst by going out 
there and killing a Lagos, whatever that is.

Angel faces her again upon hearing that demon's name.

Angel:  Lagos?

Buffy:  Some demon looking for some all-powerful thingamabob, (Angel 
sits, suddenly worried) and I gotta stop him before he unleashes unholy 
havoc, (sees his worried look) and it's another Tuesday night in 
Sunnydale.

Angel can't bring himself to look at her again, and so just stares off 
into space.

Angel:  Be careful.

Buffy turns and heads out of the mansion. Angel watches her back as she 
goes, and when she's gone, he gets up to start some work of his own.

Cut to the library. Giles is sitting at the large table reading through 
a book with a dozen other volumes open and spread out in front of him. 
Willow is standing behind the railing of the stack level behind him. 
Xander is standing at the end of the table. Giles looks up from his 
book.

Giles:  Oh, this is intolerable. (slams the book shut) There's not a 
word here about Lagos or the glove. (stands up) We don't have time for 
this (drops the book in frustration) near-missing. (turns to Willow and 
Xander) Just find out all you can about the demon, its-its-its 
strengths, its-its weaknesses, (begins to pace) its places of origin, 
(stops and yanks off his glasses) and most importantly, (points at 
Xander with his glasses) what it plans to do with this blasted glove.

Xander:  (gives Giles an annoyed smile) Hey, you're not the Watcher of 
me.

Giles:  Then go home. But if you choose to stay, then work.

He makes frustrated tracks into his office. Xander stares after him for 
a moment, then starts up the stairs to the stack level for more 
research. Willow steps over to meet him.

Willow:  Ugh... It's late. I'm tired. What does he want from us, anyway?

They head into the stacks.

Xander:  The number of a qualified surgeon to remove the British flag 
from his butt?

They stop at a spot where a few books are lying open on the floor and 
sit down. Xander takes one of them and starts to look through it.

Willow:  My eyes are all blurry.

She leans forward and rests her head in her hands for a moment, then 
starts rubbing her temples with her fingers.

Willow:  Ohh...

She moans as she rubs. Xander looks over at her, concerned. He sets down 
his book, nudges a bit closer and reaches over to do the rubbing for 
her. When she feels his fingers at her temples, Willow drops her own 
hands into her lap and lets him minister to her, letting out a few more 
moans.

Willow:  Oh, stop.

Xander:  Right. (continues rubbing) Stop means no... (keeps rubbing) And 
no means no, so, um... (finally stops) stop.

He leans back away from her. She sits up a bit. He takes his book again 
to continue his research. Suddenly Willow reaches for him, grabs his 
face and plants a hard kiss on his lips. Xander responds and puts his 
hands around her to pull her closer. They kiss passionately for a few 
seconds, when Giles suddenly comes walking by, his attention focused on 
a book in his hands as he reads. Willow and Xander don't notice him at 
all.

Giles:  Willow, Xander...

They stop kissing and quickly scramble to their feet.

Giles:  ...you can stop your, uh, studying.

They wipe and cover their mouths in guilt, but aren't yet sure if 
they've been caught since Giles is looking at a bookcase. Willow bites 
her nails nervously.

Giles:  I've got what I need.

Xander:  (trying to be cool) What have you got?

Giles:  Uh, the probable location of the Glove of Myhnegon. (faces them) 
It's, uh, housed in the Von Hauptman family crypt.

Xander:  Yeah, that's that big one over at the Restfield Cemetery.

Willow:  Yeah, well, that's great, Giles. Um, how'd you find it?

Giles:  I looked. (continues his reading)

Xander:  Where's Buffy at?

Giles:  Uh, I'm not sure.

Xander:  Well, I'll go check out this, uh, crypt. (starts out) Um, tell 
her heads-up if she, uh, stops by. (leaves)

Giles:  Yes, by all means, go.

Willow:  (nervously) A-and I'll just keep studying. I think we're on the 
verge of a big Lagos breakthrough.

Giles:  (looks up from his book) No, I'd say we're done.

He starts back out of the stacks. Willow lets out a deep sigh, ridden 
with guilt and halfway convinced that they've been caught.

Cut to the streets at night. Faith and Buffy walk along as people and 
cars go by.

Faith:  Ronnie, deadbeat. Steve, klepto. Kenny... drummer. Eventually, I 
just had to face up to my destiny as a loser magnet. Now it's strictly 
get some, get gone. You can't trust guys.

Buffy:  You can trust some guys. (gets a doubtful look from Faith) 
Really, I've read about them.

Faith:  (laughs) Yeah. So, what about you?

Buffy:  You mean like, me and guys me?

Faith:  Mm-hm.

Buffy:  Not much to tell these days.

Faith:  Yeah, but you gotta have stories. I mean, I've had my share of 
losers, but you... you boinked the undead. What was that like?

Buffy:  Life with Angel's... was complicated. It's still a little hard 
for me to talk about.

Faith:  Well, try.

They stop walking.

Buffy:  Look, Faith, all the Angel issues are still kind of with me, so 
if you don't mind, I'd rather not.

Faith:  (shrugs) Yeah. (shrugs) Yeah, whatever.

Buffy looks away.

Faith:  You know what? We're oh for six tonight. Why don't we just blow 
this off?

Buffy:  Yeah. I am kinda beat. But-but Shady Hill's pretty close.

Faith:  I'll swing through it. It's on my way anyway.

Buffy:  Alone? I-I don't know if I'd...

Faith:  I got Miss Priss on my back now. I don't need another baby-
sitter. I'll holler if I'm having any fun.

Buffy:  (smiles thinly) Okay.

Faith:  (nods down the street) Later. (goes)

Buffy:  Thanks.

She watches her go for a moment before turning and heading home.

Cut to Shady Hill cemetery. Faith walks around a hedge and into view, 
scanning the graveyard as she goes. Suddenly the lid of a stone coffin 
slams into the ground in front of her. She jerks back, startled but 
unhurt. In front of her she sees Lagos, a warrior demon, grabbing things 
out of the coffin and throwing them aside as he quickly rummages through 
it.

Faith:  (to herself) Son of a bitch. It's my lucky day.

She starts to run toward him and jumps into a flying side kick to Lagos' 
back. He hardly budges and turns his head to see who is disturbing him. 
Faith grabs his arm and whips him around to face her. She backhand 
punches him in the face and instantly follows up with another swing to 
his face, then punches him in the gut and again in the face. She pushes 
him away slightly to get some distance between them, and then roundhouse 
kicks him in the side. Unfazed and tired of the interruption, Lagos 
grabs her by the neck and throws her high and far. She slams into the 
side of a mausoleum and falls to the ground. Lagos turns his attention 
back to the open coffin. Faith scrambles to her feet and starts to run 
at him again. Lagos hears her coming this time and turns to face her. 
She tries to grab his neck, but he blocks her arm and does an uppercut 
to Faith's diaphragm, which makes her airborne once again. She hits the 
ground hard and starts to struggle for breath. Lagos ignores her and 
goes back to his rummaging. He pulls the last of the coffin's contents 
out, sees that it's nothing he wants and throws it aside in disgust. He 
wastes no time getting out of there, stomping right past Faith, not 
giving her even so much as another glance. With her breath knocked out 
of her, Faith is unable to get up to pursue him.

Cut to Restfield cemetery. Xander finds his way through the gravestones 
to the Von Hauptman family crypt. His breathing is heavy and nervous. He 
finds the crypt and peeks at it from behind a bush, making sure no one 
and nothing else is around. He steps out from behind the bush, nervously 
looking around while he makes his way toward the crypt.

Xander:  (smiling, dripping with sarcasm) Hey, Giles, here's a nifty 
idea: why don't I alleviate my guilt by goin' out and gettin' myself 
really, really killed?

He stops in his tracks when he thinks he hears a noise. Sure enough, a 
second later he can hear the sound of stone grinding against stone 
coming from inside the crypt. He swiftly ducks behind a group of bushes, 
crouches down and waits to see who will come out. A figure soon comes 
out of the crypt and pulls the door closed. In its arms it holds 
something wrapped in a bunch of rags. The figure turns its back to 
Xander as it grabs the outer iron gate and swings it closed as well. 
Xander rises up just a bit so he can better see who it is. The figure 
turns around again and begins to cautiously make its way out of the 
graveyard. As it nears Xander, he sees that it's Angel. Xander doesn't 
take his eyes off of him as he walks past. When Angel is far enough 
ahead of him, Xander comes out from behind the bushes, pulls out his 
stake and starts to follow.

Cut to the atrium at Angel's mansion. Xander sneaks down the stairs to 
the main gallery and tiptoes over to a window where he can see inside. 
There, to his shock, he sees Buffy with Angel, kissing passionately.

                    ~~~~~~~~~~ Part 2 ~~~~~~~~~~

Angel's mansion. He and Buffy are kissing passionately. The camera 
circles around them as they continue kissing. Suddenly Buffy breaks it 
off and takes a couple of steps backward and looks away from his face.

Buffy:  Oh, God...

Angel:  (confused) Buffy...

Buffy:  What am I doing? (looks up at him) What are *you* doing?

Angel:  (still confused) I don't know.

Buffy:   Shame on you!

Angel doesn't know how to respond to that. He puts his hand to his 
forehead. Buffy heads over to her things on the couch.

Buffy:  Oh, God, I... I don't even know why I came back here.

She starts to pull on her jacket. Angel steps over and takes it from her 
hands.

Angel:  It's good you did.

Buffy looks up to him, waiting for an explanation.

Angel:  I think I have what you're looking for.

He leads her by the hand over to a pedestal where the thing he got from 
the crypt lies, still wrapped up in rags.

Buffy:  Great... Just, wherever this was gift-wrapped, remind me not to 
shop there.

He unwraps the rags to reveal their contents. It's an ancient-looking 
glove made of leather, chain mail and plate mail. There are small spikes 
along the plates that cover the back of the hand and the forearm. Ringed 
around the opening are ten hinged claws that look something like crab 
legs, but made of steel and very sharp.

Angel:  Glove of Myhnegon.

Buffy:  The world's ugliest fashion accessory.

She reaches out to touch it. Angel quickly stays her hand with his.

Angel:  No, don't. Once you put it on, the glove can never be removed.

Buffy:  So... no touching. (nods, looks at their hands) Kinda like us.

Angel gets the hint and releases her hand. He wraps the glove back up in 
the rags.

Buffy:  You hold on to it. I'll... I'll tell Giles in the morning. At 
least he'll be happy.

Cut to Giles' apartment. He is researching through a book at his desk. 
Gwendolyn walks in front of the camera and around to Giles' side. He 
seems to have found something.

Giles:  Ah! Yes. There we are.

In the book is a sketch of a battle scene with an inset of the glove. It 
resembles the real thing only vaguely. He sets the book down for her to 
see.

Giles:  There's a wood engraving. See? The Glove of Myhnegon.

Gwendolyn:  (looks at it, unimpressed) Yes, engraved by Father Theodore 
of Wolsham.

Giles:  Yes.

Gwendolyn:  Based, I believe, on very sketchy and unreliable folk 
legends. The pictures are fun to look at, Mr. Giles, but one really 
ought to read the nice words as well.

Giles looks up from the books, but stares ahead, not wanting Gwendolyn 
to see the look of raw annoyance in his eyes. In the kitchen the tea 
kettle begins to whistle.

Giles:  Ah. (stands up) Yes. (puts his hands in his pockets) Some tea, 
perhaps?

He strides into the kitchen. Gwendolyn takes the few steps over to the 
bar where he has two cups already set out for the tea and sits on one of 
the stools. Giles grabs the kettle from the stove.

Gwendolyn:   I know that you must find me tiresome, but it's insidious, 
really.

Giles pours the hot water into one of the cups. Gwendolyn looks down at 
the teabag in her still empty cup, takes it out and sets it aside.

Gwendolyn:  A person slips up on the little things, and soon everything 
has gone to Hell in a handbasket.

Giles doesn't say anything to her rejection of his teabag. She opens her 
purse and pulls out a small box with her own supply of tea.

Gwendolyn:  For example... Buffy, your Slayer...

Giles:  (struggling to control his voice) Mrs. Post... (pours her hot 
water) I can assure you that Buffy is both dedicated and industrious, 
and I am in complete control of my Slayer.

Suddenly his apartment door whips open, and Xander runs into the room.

Xander:  Giles! We have a big problem. It's Buffy.

Gwendolyn give Giles a snooty look.

Giles:  Will you excuse us?

He walks very stiffly from the kitchen and nods to Xander to follow. 
They go to the far side of the room and whisper between themselves. 
Gwendolyn takes her own teabag and puts it in her cup to steep.

Gwendolyn:  Would you like some assistance?

Giles and Xander stop their whispering and look at her.

Giles:  (smiling thinly) Thank you. That won't be necessary.

They go back to their private discussion. Gwendolyn looks at her cup to 
see how far along her tea is.

Cut to Sunnydale High. Cut to the library. Giles paces slowly in the 
main area. Behind him the door opens, and he hears someone walk in. He 
slowly turns to see that it's Buffy.

Buffy:  Lagos is out of luck. I got the magic mitten thingy.

She stops to see that Xander, Cordelia, Oz and Willow are all sitting at 
the center table looking as glum as Giles does.

Buffy:  What's with all the tragedy masks?

Giles:  (indicates a chair) Better take a seat, Buffy.

Xander gets up out of his chair, nudges it over a bit so it's at the 
head of the table, and steps away to stand next to Cordelia. Buffy 
slowly steps over to the chair.

Buffy:  What's going on? (sits)

Giles:  We know Angel is alive. (Buffy looks shocked) Xander saw you 
with him. It would appear that you've been hiding him and that you lied 
to us.

Buffy looks away, trying to absorb this new turn of events.

Willow:  Nobody's here to blame you, Buffy. But this is serious. You 
need help.

Buffy:  (looks up at Willow) It's not what you think.

Xander:  Hope not. Because I think you're harboring a vicious killer.

Buffy can't believe Xander's callousness.

Willow:  (trying to mediate) This isn't about attacking Buffy. Remember, 
'I' statements only. 'I feel angry.' 'I feel worried.'

Cordelia:  Fine. Here's one: I feel worried... about me! Last time 
around, Angel barely laid a hand on Buffy. He was *way* more interested 
in killing her friends.

Buffy:  But he's better now.

Xander:  Better for how long, Buffy? I mean, did you even think about 
that?

Buffy:  (stands up) What is this, Demons Anonymous? (starts to leave) I 
don't need an intervention, here.

Giles:  Oh, don't you? (Buffy stops and faces him) You must've known it 
was wrong seeing Angel or you wouldn't have hidden it from all of us.

Buffy:  (desperate and defensive) I was going to tell you, I was. I-it 
was just that I... I didn't know why he came back. I just wanted to 
wait.

Xander:  For what? For Angel to go psycho again the next time you give 
him a happy?

Buffy:  (raising her voice defensively) I'm not going to... (raises her 
hand to him) We're not together like that.

Oz:  But you were kissing him.

Willow gives Oz a quick look, then looks at Buffy, worried. Buffy thinks 
about the implication of Oz's accusation, and looks at Xander.

Buffy:  You were spying on me? (steps toward him) What gives you the 
right?

Cordelia:  What gives you the right to suck face with your demon lover 
again?

Buffy:  (defensive again) It was an accident.

Xander:  What, you just tripped and fell on his lips?

Buffy:  It was wrong, okay? I know that, and I know that it can't happen 
again. But you guys have to believe me. I would never put you in any 
danger. If I thought for a second that Angel was going to hurt anyone...

Xander:  ...you would stop him. Like you did last time with Ms. 
Calendar.

Buffy is completely taken aback by Xander's totally insensitive and 
unfair attack, and can't utter a word in response. Willow senses that 
it's time to intercede.

Willow:  (nervously) Buffy, I feel that when it comes to Angel, you 
can't see straight. And that's why we're, we're all gonna help you face 
this.

Buffy:  But he's better now. I swear. Look, you guys, he's the one that 
found the Glove of Myhnegon. H-he's keeping it safe for us in the 
mansion.

Xander:  (spreads his arms) Right! Great plan. Leave tons of firepower 
with the Scary Guy, and leave us to clean up the mess.

He makes tracks to leave the library, intent on doing something about 
this. Buffy takes him by the arm and spins him around to face her.

Buffy:  You would just love an excuse to hurt him, wouldn't you?

Xander:  I don't need an excuse. I think lots of dead people actually 
constitutes a reason.

Buffy:  Right. This is all nobility. This has nothing to do with 
jealousy.

Xander gives her a haughty grin, but is interrupted before he can 
continue.

Cordelia:  Hello? Miss Not-Over-Yourself-Yet?

Buffy:  (shakes her head in warning) Don't you start with me.

Cordelia looks to Giles for support.

Willow:  (upset) Giles, no one's doing the 'I' statements!

Giles:  That's enough! Everybody. Now, Buffy knows our concerns, and her 
actions, however ill-advised, can be understood. (Cordelia shakes her 
head) Our... priority right now is to retrieve the Glove of Myhnegon and 
try to destroy it. Now, all of you, back to classes.

One after the other they all get up, gather their things and go. Giles 
goes into his office, his hands firmly stuffed into his pockets. Once 
there he takes off his jacket and hangs it around the back of his chair. 
Buffy follows him and stops by the office door.

Buffy:  (uneasily) Thanks for the bail in there.

Giles doesn't face her, and instead unbuttons his vest.

Buffy:  I know this is a lot to absorb, but Angel did find the glove, 
and that was a good...

Giles:  (interrupts) Be quiet. (slowly turns to face her) (sternly) I 
won't remind you that the fate of the world often lies with the Slayer. 
What would be the point? Nor shall I remind you that you've jeopardized 
the lives of all that you hold dear by harboring a known murderer. But 
sadly, I must remind you that Angel tortured me... for hours... for 
pleasure. You should have told me he was alive. You didn't. You have no 
respect for me, or the job I perform.

Buffy averts her eyes in shame. Giles turns back to his desk, sits down 
and leans back in thought. Buffy just stands in the doorway for a long 
moment before leaving quietly.

Cut to Faith's motel room. There is a knock at the door. Faith opens it, 
stake raised and ready. She is surprised to see Gwendolyn standing 
there. She lowers the stake as Mrs. Post enters.

Gwendolyn:  A word of advice? Vampires rarely knock. Especially in 
daylight. (closes the door)

Faith:  Oh, right.

Gwendolyn:  (looks around) So... this is your home.

Faith:  Yeah. (gestures around the room) The decorator actually just 
left.

Gwendolyn:  Faith, do you know who the Spartans were? (leans against the 
dresser)

Faith:  Wild stab: a bunch of guys from Spart? (sits on the bed)

Gwendolyn:  They were the fiercest warriors known to Ancient Greece. And 
they lived in quarters very much like these. Do you know why? Because a 
true fighter needs nothing else. I'm going to be very hard on you, 
Faith. I will not brook insolence or laziness. And I will not allow 
blunders like last night's attack. You will probably hate me a great 
deal of the time.

Faith:  (smiles sardonically) You think?

Gwendolyn:  (steps over to the bed) But I will make you a better Slayer, 
(sits next to Faith) and that will keep you alive. You have to trust 
that I am right. God only knows what Mr. Giles has been filling your 
head with.

Faith:  Giles is okay.

Gwendolyn:  (stands) His methods are unfathomable to me. I find him 
entirely confounding. But that is not important. Let him have his games 
and secret meetings.

Faith:  What meetings?

Gwendolyn:  Oh, I don't know. Something with Buffy and her friends.

Faith:  Oh, right. I guess that doesn't include me.

Gwendolyn:  And why does he let her socialize so much? It hardly 
seems... No matter. Would you like to do some training?

Faith:  Training? (stands up) As in kicking and punching and stabbing?

Gwendolyn:  (smiles) Yes, that's the idea.

Faith:  I'm your girl.

Cut to the halls at Sunnydale High. The bell rings. Buffy walks around 
the corner and stops when she sees Willow at her locker. She takes a 
breath to calm herself and heads over to her friend.

Buffy:  Hey.

Willow:  Hey! (continues gathering her stuff)

Buffy:  So on a scale of one to a million, how much are you hating me 
right now?

Willow:  (jumpy, trying to hide her feelings) Zero. You were scared, you 
kept a secret, you know? (zips closed her backpack) That's-it-it's okay. 
I mean, secrets aren't bad. You know, they're normal. (slips her pack 
onto her shoulder) They're better than normal. They're good. Secrets are 
good. Must be a reason why we keep them, right? (closes her locker)

Buffy:  Yeah, I guess.

They start down the hall.

Willow:  So, are you going to the Bronze tonight, or, uh, are you gonna 
sneak away for a not-so-secret rendezvous with Angel?

Buffy:  None of the above. I'm gonna try and kill this Lagos guy. Peace 
offering to Giles.

Willow:  Well, Angel has the glove now, right?

Buffy:  Yep. But Lagos doesn't know that. I figure sooner or later he's 
bound to show up at that crypt looking for it.

Willow:  Ah, but instead he finds a Buffy in a not-so-good mood.

Buffy:  That's my brilliant plan.

Cut to the Bronze that evening. Xander makes his breaking shot at a pool 
table. He goes over to the pocket where he accidentally sank his cue 
ball, retrieves it and walks back around the table to continue 
practicing. Faith approaches the table.

Faith:  You look pissed.

Xander:  Rough day. (chooses his shot)

Faith:  Tell me about it.

Xander:  (places the cue ball) Rather just shoot. (aims his cue stick)

Faith:  Don't think I don't know what you and your pals were talking 
about behind my back today.

Xander:  (takes his shot) Yeah? And what was that? (looks for his next 
shot)

Faith:  More about this glove deal than you're saying.

Xander:  The Glove of Myhnegon? Right. (aims his cue stick) How'd you 
like a hit of some real news: Angel's still alive.

He takes his shot and starts walking around the table again, looking for 
his next shot. Faith looks at him in wide-eyed surprise.

Faith:  The vampire.

Xander:  Back in town. Saw him myself. Toting the popular and famous 
glove.

He bends down again to take aim for his shot.

Faith:  Angel.

Xander makes this shot and watches the balls ricochet.

Faith:  Guy like that, with that kind of glove, could kill a whole mess 
of people.

Xander:  Said the same thing to Buffy myself. Weird how she didn't seem 
to care. (aims for his next shot)

Faith:  Buffy knew he was alive.

Xander takes his shot.

Faith:  I can't believe her.

Xander:  (walks around the table) She says he's clean.

Faith:  Yeah, well, I say we can't afford to find out. (has Xander's 
full attention) I say I deal with this problem right now. I say I slay.

Xander:  Can I come?

He puts down his cue stick and they head out.

Cut to Giles' office at the library. He is researching at his desk. He 
hears footsteps and turns around to stand up and see who it is.

Gwendolyn:  You wanted to see me, Mr. Giles?

Giles:  (grabs his coat) Yes. I do apologize for bringing you in at this 
late hour. (pulls it on)

Gwendolyn:  Please. A good Watcher must be awake and alert at all hours.

Giles:  Would you like some tea?

He tosses his glasses onto his desk and steps over to his tea-making 
implements to prepare his teapot and two cups.

Gwendolyn:  God, yes, please. I'm completely knackered. (goes to Giles' 
chair) I spent the afternoon training with Faith. (sits) She doesn't 
lack for energy.

Giles:  (chuckles) She's your first Slayer, I take it?

Gwendolyn:  If you're questioning my qualifications...

Giles:  No, I'm not. (pours water from the kettle into his teapot) I, 
uh, have the utmost respect for your methods... (faces her, holding the 
teapot) in my own American way. (leans against his desk) I also have the 
glove. (Gwendolyn looks at him expectantly) Oh, not actually on me, but, 
uh, I believe it's safe. It's in a mansion on Crawford Street. A-a-a 
friend of Buffy's is keeping it there.

Gwendolyn:  (stands up) Well. We must get to it. Immediately. Hide it 
before someone else finds it.

Giles:  Or better still, destroy it.

Gwendolyn:  (surprised) Destroy it?

Giles:  (stands up and sets down the teapot) Yes, I-I... I didn't think 
it could be done either, but... (goes to his desk for a book) It 
involves transforming fire (show her the book) into Living Flame and 
immolating the glove.

Gwendolyn reads the pages where Giles indicates.

Giles:  I-i-it's complex, but, uh, I believe I have all the necessary 
materials.

He goes back to his desk and checks his gathered inventory.

Gwendolyn:  Well, (puts the book down) I must say, Mr. Giles... Good 
show.

She steps up behind him and hits him across the back of the neck with a 
wooden tribal statue. His knees give and he stumbles, but doesn't fall. 
He turns to face her, giving her a stunned look.

Gwendolyn:  Good show indeed.

She swings the statue again at his temple. It hits him hard, and he 
falls unconscious to the floor.

                    ~~~~~~~~~~ Part 3 ~~~~~~~~~~

The Restfield Cemetery in front of the Von Hauptman family crypt. Willow 
paces and Buffy sits on a stone bench while they wait for Lagos to show 
up.

Willow:  Um, not to downplay my own slaying abilities, which in some 
circles are considered formidable, but shouldn't Faith be here?

Buffy:  I tried calling, but no one was home. Look, if you're feeling 
any demon-o-phobia, please, splitting is totally an option. You're not 
the one in trouble with Giles.

Willow:  That's true. (continues pacing)

Buffy:  How long do you think he can stay angry at me, anyway?

Willow:  The emotional marathon man? (shrugs)

Buffy:  Yeah. I can't really blame him. It's weird, though. Now that my 
secret... Angel, it's all out in the open... I feel better.

Willow:  Well, *sure* you do. This big burden's been lifted. I mean, 
keeping secrets is a lot of work. (stops pacing) One could 
hypothetically imagine.

Buffy:  You have no idea.

Willow:  (laughs uneasily) None whatsoever. But... (sits next to Buffy) 
Can I ask you a question? (Buffy nods) When you were with Angel and 
nobody knew about it, did that make it feel, you know, sexier somehow?

Buffy:  Not really. It's too much pressure. After a while, it even makes 
the fun parts... not so fun.

Willow:  (disappointed) Oh.

Buffy:  (wondering what's up) What makes you think all this secret stuff 
is sexy, anyway?

Willow:  (nervously defensive) Nothing. I'm just wondering. Gotta keep 
asking the big old questions when you're blessed with this girl's thirst 
for knowledge and... (gives in) Okay. There's something I have to tell 
you.

Buffy:  What?

Willow:  (gets up) Okay. This will make me feel better, right? You know, 
I always consider myself a good person. Floss, do my homework, never 
cheat. But lately, and please don't judge me on this, but I want you to 
be the first to know that, that... (sees Lagos) there's a demon behind 
you.

Buffy looks behind her and kicks her legs up to spin herself around on 
the bench. She uses the momentum of the spin to start a running attack. 
She jumps into a twin pike kick to Lago's stomach. It has no real effect 
on Lagos, just making him take a step backward as she falls flat to the 
ground. Willow looks on, worried and unable to help. Lagos reaches down 
for Buffy and grabs her by the neck. He pulls her up only to flip her 
back down to the ground in a sloppy front tuck. She lands hard on her 
back. Willow wants to help, but can only watch. Buffy gets to her feet 
and comes at Lagos with a combination of a punch to the gut and the 
face, a half spin, a backhand punch to the face, another half spin and 
another backhand punch. She tries for an elbow jab, but he blocks it, 
grabs her arm and reaches for her leg, and lifts her up above his head. 
Willow is afraid for her friend and waves her hands wildly in protest.

Willow:  Don't...

Lagos suddenly drops Buffy, and she lands hard on her back. Willow 
cringes at the sight. Buffy quickly gets to her feet and steps to her 
right as Lagos swings a fist at her head. He misses her and smashes his 
fist into a stone cross. Taking advantage of the opening, Buffy steps in 
and front snap kicks him in the gut, following up with a roundhouse kick 
to his face, a full spin and another roundhouse kick to his crotch. 
Lagos doubles over in pain. Willow winces at how painful it looked. 
Buffy spies the battle-ax on his back.

Buffy:  Now we're talking.

She grabs the ax, pulls it from its sheath and swings it around as Lagos 
straightens back up. In one stroke Lagos is suddenly headless. His head 
rolls along the ground a ways before coming to rest. Willow pumps her 
fists into the air in front of her.

Willow:  Yes!

She quickly plays down her gesture into crossed arms. Buffy comes 
walking back to her.

Buffy:  Sorry about that. So, what were you saying?

Willow:  Oh, I... (decides against a confession) I opened my SAT test 
booklet five minutes early. (Buffy gives her a blank look) Just doesn't 
seem important now, does it?

Buffy:  (smiles) Your secret's safe with me. (looks at Lagos' body) Come 
on. Let's go bring Giles some happiness.

She shoulders the battle-ax, and the two girls head for the library.

Cut to the library. Faith and Xander barge in and head for the cage, and 
the weapons cabinet within.

Xander:  Good old Sunnydale library. Fully equipped with reference 
books, file cards... (opens the cabinet doors) and weapons.

Faith:  Beauty. (reaches in)

Xander:  I call crossbow. (reaches for it)

Faith:  You got it.

They gather an array of weapons. Xander grabs some bolts for the bow. 
They close the doors when they have what they want.

Xander:  All right, ready to go?

Faith:  That I am.

They start to head out, when Xander hears a moan coming from Giles' 
office.

Xander:  Wait.

Faith:  What?

Xander hurries into the office. He sets down the crossbow when he sees 
Giles on the floor and kneels down to help him.

Xander:  Oh, my God. It's Giles! (holds his head) Giles, can you hear 
me? (looks around) What the hell happened?

Faith:  Gee, let me guess.

Xander:  (trying not to panic) Stop. Hold it. Just think a minute.

Faith:  Yeah, I'm thinking. Thinking Buffy's ex-meat did this.

Xander:  (grabs the phone) It's not Angel's style. (dials 911)

Faith:  The guy's a demon! How much more proof do you need?

Xander:  Bite marks would be nice. (into the phone) Yeah, I have a 
medical emergency. Sunnydale High.

Faith:  Screw this waiting crap. (starts to go)

Xander:  Faith, if we leave, Giles could die!

Faith:  (from the checkout counter) Yeah, and he's gonna have a whole 
lot of company, unless *I* do something permanent. (starts to go again)

Xander:  Wait!

Faith:  For what? You to grow a pair? You handle the baby-sit, and I'm 
gonna kill Angel. (strides out)

Xander:  Damn it!

He waits on the phone, holding Giles' head.

Cut to Angel's mansion. He has a fire going in an urn and several small 
bowls of powders in various colors on a small table.

Angel:  Exorere, Flamma Vitae. Prodi ex loco tuo elementorum, in hunc 
mundum vivorum.

Translation:  Arise, Flame of Life. Come forth from your place of the 
elements, into this world of the living.

He shakes some of a green powder into his hand, throws it into the 
flame, and it begins to burn green.

Angel:  Exorere, Flamma Vitae. Prodi ex loco tuo elementorum, in hunc 
mundum vivorum.

Translation:  Arise, Flame of Life. Come forth from your place of the 
elements, into this world of the living.

He shakes some of a red powder into his hand, throws it into the flame, 
and it begins to burn red.

Cut to the library. Buffy and Willow open the doors and walk in.

Buffy:  Giles is gonna be psyched that we showed up stuffy old Mrs. 
Post.

They see the paramedics there with Giles on a gurney. Buffy tosses the 
battle-ax over the counter.

Buffy:  Oh, my God. (runs to Giles' side)

Paramedic:  (into her radio) Sunnydale Medical...

Buffy:  What happened?

Paramedic:  (into her radio) ...Caucasian male, mid-forties...

Buffy:  Giles...

Paramedic:  ...blunt object head trauma. Notify ER, we're bringing him 
in.

Buffy:  What happened?

Paramedic:  No time for this. (starts to wheel him out)

Giles:  (feebly) Wait... (the paramedics stop) Buffy, you must... must 
destroy the glove.

Paramedic:  (sternly) You want him to live? Get out of the way.

She and her partner quickly roll Giles from the library.

Giles:  Use... Living... Flame...

Paramedic:  Move!

They slam the library doors open with the gurney and turn down the hall. 
Willow looks at Xander, worried and wanting to know what went down. 
Buffy watches until the gurney has disappeared, then also turns to 
Xander for an explanation. He just gives her a blank stare.

Buffy:  What happened?

Xander:  Your boyfriend's not as cured as you thought.

Buffy:  What makes you think that Angel had anything to do with this?

Xander:  We saw what you saw.

Buffy:  So you just assume?

Xander:  I didn't. Faith did.

Willow gives Buffy a concerned look.

Buffy:  (very worried) What did you tell her?

Xander:  Only what everyone knows. She's a big girl. Came to her own 
conclusions.

Buffy:  (angry) How much of a head start does she have?

Xander:  Ten minutes.

Buffy:  (steps over to Willow) Go through Giles' research. Figure out 
how to destroy the glove.

She glares at Xander for a second, not believing that he could actually 
do such a thing, and then runs from the library. Willow watches her go, 
then looks at Xander accusingly. He tries to say something, but Willow 
doesn't let him get a single word out.

Willow:  Shut up and help me.

She heads for Giles' office. Xander follows close behind.

Cut to Angel's mansion. The red Living Flame burns intensely in the urn. 
Angel turns around to get the glove, but stops when he sees Gwendolyn 
walk in. He stares at her unwaveringly.

Angel:  What do you want?

Gwendolyn:  Gwen Post. Mr. Giles sent me.

Angel:  What for?

Gwendolyn:  To help you destroy the glove. (looks at the urn) Is that 
the Living Flame?

Angel:  Yes.

Gwendolyn:  (goes to the table by the urn) Look, I'm sorry to be so 
abrupt, but Lagos is on his way here now. (looks it over) If you're 
performing the ritual incorrectly, it will only make the glove more 
powerful.

Angel:  Alright. (steps up to the flame)

Gwendolyn:  Good. Where is the glove?

Angel:  It's in the trunk.

He turns around again to get the glove from the trunk. Gwendolyn grabs a 
shovel that's leaning against the table and swings it hard into his 
head. He falls to the floor unconscious.

Gwendolyn:  That's what I love about this town. Everyone's so helpful.

                    ~~~~~~~~~~ Part 4 ~~~~~~~~~~

Angel's mansion. Gwendolyn hurries over to the trunk and tries to open 
it. She finds it locked.

Gwendolyn:  Bugger.

She tries yanking at the old padlock, but it doesn't give.

Gwendolyn:  Bugger!

She takes the shovel and jams it into the padlock a few times. The old 
lock breaks readily. She reaches down to remove it. Behind her Angel 
gets up from the floor sporting his game face.

Angel:  Okay...

Gwendolyn looks at him in surprise.

Angel:  That hurt.

Gwendolyn:  (holds the shovel defensively) It was supposed to kill you. 
If you'd been human, it would have. But... (breaks the handle over her 
knee) I believe this is your poison.

She swings at Angel's midsection with her long makeshift stake, but he 
sidesteps her to avoid the blow. She swings back the other way, but this 
time aims for his face, and he ducks it. She swings again, but Angel 
middle blocks the hit and takes the opportunity to punch her in the 
face. She falls down hard and loses her grip on the shovel handle. She 
scrambles onto all fours and starts to make a run for it. Angel circles 
around the urn with the Living Flame, grabs her by the back of the neck 
as she rises to her feet, pushes down on her neck to stop her and throws 
her against a wall. She slides to the floor nearly unconscious. Angel 
grabs her by the shoulder just as Faith barges in holding a long club 
with a steel hook embedded in the business end.

Faith:  Mrs. Post!

Angel lets go of Gwendolyn, roars and faces his new adversary.

Faith:  (intensely angry) I can't believe how much I'm gonna kill you.

Angel:  (stands his ground) You're *not* getting that glove.

Faith:  You wanna bet?

Before she has a chance to attack with her club, Angel does a low in-to-
out crescent kick, knocking it from her hands. Faith body checks him, 
but he easily absorbs the blow, taking only a slight step backward. 
Gwendolyn begins to come to, and watches the fight. Angel does a 
backhand swing to Faith's head, making it snap back and to the side. She 
whirls back around, infuriated, and delivers a backhand punch to his 
face followed immediately with another punch. Angel tries to return with 
a punch, but he swings too wide, and Faith has plenty of time to duck 
it. Angel's follow through leaves him in an awkward position, and Faith 
takes immediate advantage. She bends over his right side and holds onto 
him for support as she kicks up backwards, hitting him in the head with 
a reverse snap kick. He is dazed with pain. She steps away from his side 
and stomps down on the back of his right knee, causing him to collapse. 
Faith grabs Angel by the shirt and launches him into the air. He lands 
on one side of the couch and backrolls over the coffee table to the 
other section set at a right angle. He is severely stunned. Faith runs 
over to him, sees that he is defenseless and raises her stake. She 
swings down hard with it directly at his chest, when out of nowhere an 
arm reaches in and stays her swing. She looks to her side and sees that 
it's Buffy.

Faith:  (very confused) What?

Buffy grabs her by the waist and throws her away from Angel.

Cut to the library. Willow and Xander are grinding and mixing powders 
for the spell to invoke Living Flame.

Xander:  Think we got it?

Willow:  Well, it's either the catalyst for Living Flame or just some 
really smelly sand. (looks at Xander, worried) We'll have to test this.

Xander:  I'll double-check.

He reads through his book, and Willow notices his suddenly intent stare 
while reading.

Willow:  What?

Xander:  I know what the glove does.

He angles the book so she can read and points to a passage. She quickly 
absorbs the information.

Willow:  There's no time to test this.

She quickly grabs a plastic bag and pulls it open. Xander blows out the 
candles on the table, grabs the grinding bowl and pours the mix into the 
plastic bag. Willow spins the neck of the bag to seal it, and they both 
race out of the library.

Cut to Angel's mansion. Buffy is faced off against Faith, ready to 
fight.

Buffy:  I can't let you do it, Faith.

Faith:  You're confused, Twinkie. (smiles ironically) Let me clear you 
up. (points at Angel) Vampire. (points at herself) Slayer. (points at 
Angel again) Dead vampire.

Buffy:  There's a lot that you don't understand.

Gwendolyn:  (groggy) Faith...

The two Slayers look over at her.

Gwendolyn:  (weak from her fight) She doesn't know. She's blinded by 
love.

Buffy:  Faith, no.

Gwendolyn:  Trust me.

Faith looks back and forth between them.

Buffy:  (drops her guard) Faith, we can figure this out...

Faith does a full spinning hook kick to Buffy's face. She takes the hit 
hard, falling to her knees. Faith delivers two roundhouse kicks to 
Buffy's gut while she's still on the floor. Buffy stands up and does an 
uppercut punch to Faith's right arm, knocking the stake from her hand. 
Buffy backhand punches Faith in the face, and punches her in the chest. 
She shoves Faith backward, and Faith takes a few stumbling steps, trying 
to steady herself. Buffy does a jumping double roundhouse kick, 
alternating her legs, both of which are blocked by Faith. Buffy tries a 
backhand punch, but Faith blocks it. Buffy whirls around and punches 
Faith in the face with her other hand, catching Faith off guard. Faith 
leans in again and tries to punch Buffy, but she middle blocks it and 
punches Faith in the gut and again in the face. Faith drops to the 
floor, but thinks fast and tries to sweep kick Buffy's legs out from 
under her, but Buffy jumps to avoid it. Faith scrambles back up, and the 
two girls face off again. Buffy blocks two roundhouse kicks from Faith. 
Buffy tries a high out-to-in crescent kick, which Faith easily ducks. 
Faith rises back up and does a spinning back kick that hits Buffy 
squarely in the back, sending her to her knees. Faith rushes up behind 
her and grabs her in a choke hold around her neck. Buffy grabs Faith's 
arm and twists her body around, trying to throw Faith off, but to no 
avail. She grabs Faith's fingers and pulls them backward, cracking her 
knuckles.

Faith:  Auuuugh!

Now Buffy is able to throw Faith off with a twist of her body, and both 
girls end up on the floor. Faith rolls into a wall, hitting her back 
against a corner. Buffy scrambles to her feet and runs at Faith, but she 
snaps out her leg and trips Buffy, making her fall again. Buffy rolls 
over her back and to her knees. While she is still crouched, Faith comes 
in for an axe kick, trying to hit her on the way down. Buffy cross 
blocks her leg, grabs her ankle and raises her arms, throwing Faith off 
balance and to the floor. Faith quickly gets to her feet, and the two 
Slayers face off once again. Buffy rushes Faith and grabs her by the 
waist. The two of them go crashing through the French doors out into the 
atrium. When the glass has fallen, they both roll away from each other 
and to their feet, facing off a fourth time. Faith gives Buffy an angry 
look, spins all the way around and backhand punches Buffy in the face. 
Faith tries another backhand punch, which Buffy blocks. Faith punches 
Buffy in the gut and does another backhand punch to her face, this time 
connecting and forcing Buffy to her hands and knees. Faith advances on 
her, but Buffy does a crouching back kick to her stomach, making her 
stagger backward into a metal garden chair. She quickly gets up, grabs 
the chair and throws it at Buffy, who sidesteps it, and it clangs to the 
stone walk.

Cut inside.  Xander and Willow come running into the mansion and find 
Gwendolyn still dazed by the wall.

Gwendolyn:  The glove! It's in the trunk.

Xander:  (reassuringly) We'll get it.

Gwendolyn:  (to Xander) Help Faith.

Cut to the atrium. Faith does a half-spinning crescent kick, which Buffy 
ducks, but gets hit instead with Faith's next roundhouse kick. Faith 
swings a punch at Buffy, but she ducks it and blocks a backhand from 
Faith as well. Buffy fakes a punch and instead elbows Faith in the gut. 
Faith ducks the next punch. Buffy pushes Faith backwards and does a half 
spinning hook kick to her face, almost making her lose her balance.

Cut inside. Xander looks up at the two Slayers fighting it out. He 
rushes out to intercede. Willow helps Gwendolyn to her feet.

Cut to the atrium. Faith does a jumping roundhouse kick, which Buffy 
ducks. Xander comes rushing out through the broken doors.

Xander:  What are you... (sees them faced off again and gets between 
them) Stop! Guys, listen!

Faith grabs him by the shirt and throws him into a lamppost. He bounces 
off of it and hits the stone walkway hard. Back at the doorway, Buffy 
does a diving punch, knocking Faith in the head and making her cry out 
in pain.

Cut inside. Gwendolyn makes a beeline for the trunk with the glove. She 
throws the lid open and unfolds the rags wrapped around the glove. 
Reverently she takes the glove out of the trunk and cradles it in her 
hands.

Gwendolyn:  (smiling wickedly) Finally.

Behind her Willow is confused by her words and actions. Sensing Willow's 
proximity, Gwendolyn swings the glove around in a wide arc, hitting her 
in the face. She falls to the marble floor unconscious.

Cut to the atrium. Faith punches, but Buffy blocks. Buffy tries to 
punch, but is also blocked. Faith tries again, and is blocked again. 
Buffy grabs onto Faith's throat, and Faith reaches up to try to pry 
Buffy's hand off of her.

Cut inside. Gwendolyn holds the glove in her left hand and looks down at 
it. Slowly she slides her right arm into the glove. Once it's inside, 
she makes a fist with the clawed fingers. Suddenly the metal claws 
surrounding the glove's opening begin closing, puncturing her arm one at 
a time until all ten have become permanently embedded in her forearm's 
flesh. She holds up her gloved arm and smiles maniacally at the sight, 
seemingly oblivious to the pain. She extends her arm above her, up 
toward the huge skylight and recites the Gaelic spell that will invoke 
the power of the glove.

Gwendolyn:  Taou huogan maqachte milegaing!

Translation:  Be mine, the power of Myhnegon!

Up in the sky lightning strikes and thunder booms. Outside Buffy and 
Faith stop their fighting to see what's going on. Inside Gwendolyn 
breathes excitedly as she waits for the power to become hers. Lightning 
strikes again above the skylight. Outside Buffy and Faith stare at 
Gwendolyn, still holding onto each other, not yet willing to take the 
chance on releasing their grip. Inside Gwendolyn stares intently up at 
the sky, awaiting her reward for being the new wearer of the Glove of 
Myhnegon. Outside the two Slayers realize their fight is no longer with 
each other, and let go.

Faith:  What's going on?

Gwendolyn allows herself to be distracted, lowers her gloved arm and 
looks over at Faith.

Gwendolyn:  (smiling maliciously) Faith! A word of advice: you're an 
idiot.

Faith and Buffy both look at her in disbelief. Gwendolyn once again 
raises her arm to the sky and utters the words that will call forth the 
power of the glove.

Gwendolyn:  Tauo freim!

Translation:  Be free!

On the floor Willow wakes up and turns around just in time to see a 
blindlingly bright bolt of lightning smash through the skylight and 
strike the glove. Shards of shattered glass fall everywhere, but 
Gwendolyn ignores them and rejoices in her new-found power. She turns to 
face the Slayers and extends the glove toward them.

Gwendolyn:  Tauo freim!

Translation:  Be free!

The bolt of energy leaps from the glove at the two girls. They scramble 
out of the way, and the bolt hits a tree in the atrium, instantly 
setting it ablaze. Buffy and Faith look at it in amazement, then turn 
their attention to what they can do about Gwendolyn. Angel also comes to 
now, and quickly takes in the situation. Willow gets to her feet and 
begins backing away, stiff with fear, staring at Gwendolyn in shocked 
horror. The would-be Watcher spins around and aims the glove at her.

Gwendolyn:  Tauo freim!

Translation:  Be free!

Thinking fast, Angel jumps to his feet and rushes toward Willow. A 
lightning bolt shoots through the skylight, hits the glove and is 
redirected at Willow. Angel reaches her just in time and roughly tackles 
her to the floor out of harm's way. The bolt hits the fireplace instead 
and leaves a deep scorch mark in the marble. Outside Buffy comes up with 
a plan.

Buffy:  (to Faith) Can you draw her fire?

Faith:  You bet I can.

Buffy:  Go do it.

Faith gets to her feet and runs into the mansion. Gwendolyn sees her 
coming. Faith ducks into a hallway and keeps running. Gwendolyn surmises 
that Faith will appear at the other hallway leading from the opposite 
end of the room, and extends her arm in that direction.

Gwendolyn:  Tauo freim!

Translation:  Be free!

Another lightning bolt strikes the glove and is sent in the direction of 
the hallway just as Faith comes running out of it. She dives behind the 
couch, avoiding the blast from the glove. Thrilled with the power that 
is now hers, Gwendolyn holds the glove up before her, staring at it with 
lustful desire in her eyes.

Gwendolyn:  There's nothing you can do to me now.

Outside Buffy sifts through the broken glass, finds a larger shard, gets 
to her feet and runs into the mansion.

Gwendolyn:  I have the glove. With the glove comes the power.

Buffy:  I'm getting that.

Gwendolyn looks over at Buffy in surprise. Buffy throws the shard of 
glass end over end. It flies like a spinning blade at Gwendolyn and 
slices cleanly through her upper arm, severing it and the glove from her 
body. With nothing to control it now, the power of the glove becomes 
erratic, and small bolts and sparks leap from it in random directions. 
Another bolt of lightning strikes through the skylight, and not having a 
target this time, hits Gwendolyn in the chest, with a few small tendrils 
going in through her eyes. She screams at the top of her lungs as her 
body begins to writhe in pain. Everyone watches helplessly as she keeps 
screaming and the lightning bolts keep coming. Buffy shuts her eyes to 
the sight. A moment later, with one final bright lightning strike, 
what's left of a one-armed Gwendolyn vanishes in a bright flash of light 
and energy. A few small arcs of electricity are all that remain as the 
last of the energy dissipates, and the mansion is again in relative 
darkness. Buffy opens her eyes. Willow and Angel get to their feet. 
Outside Xander gets up also and heads inside. Faith stands up from 
behind the couch. All that is left in the center of the room are bits of 
glass and framework from the skylight, a cloud of smoke slowly rising 
upward and the Glove of Myhnegon with Gwendolyn's severed arm still 
firmly in its grip. One by one the ten claws open up, releasing it.

Cut to Sunnydale High the next day. Cut to the student lounge. Willow 
and Oz are sitting on one of the couches across the coffee table from 
Xander and Cordelia, who are sitting on the other.

Cordelia:  So there's no more glove thingy?

Xander:  No. Little Living Flame, little mesquite, gone for good.

Oz:  Sounds like we missed a lot of fun.

Xander:  Then we're telling it wrong.

Willow:  What do you think Buffy and Angel are gonna do?

Xander:  Boy, do I don't know. (nods)

Cordelia gives him a strange look.

Willow:  Well, he saved me from a horrible flamey death. That sort of 
makes me like him again. (smiles thinly)

Xander:  Well, as long as she and Angel don't get pelvic, we'll be okay, 
I guess.

Cordelia doesn't like the way Xander phrased that, and crosses her arms. 
Buffy walks up the stairs to meet them. Xander sits up straight.

Buffy:  What are you guys talking about?

Oz:  Oddly enough, your boyfriend. Again.

Buffy:  (looks down sadly) He's not my boyfriend. (sits next to Xander) 
Really, truly, he's... (sighs) I don't know.

She looks over at Xander and Cordelia. They both look back.

Buffy:  (hesitatingly) Are we cool?

Xander:  Yeah! Just seeing the two of you kissing after everything that 
happened, I leaned toward the postal. (pauses) But I trust you.

Cordelia:  I don't. Just for the record.

Buffy raises her eyebrows, not all that surprised. Behind her Giles 
clears his throat, and she turns to face him. He's leaning against the 
railing with a large bandage on his left temple.

Buffy:  Let me guess: Gwendolyn Post: not a Watcher.

Giles:  Yes, she was. (cautiously takes the steps) She was, uh, kicked 
out by the council a couple of years ago for misuses of dark power. They 
swear there was a memo.

Buffy:  Well, I better go. (to Xander) Little more damage control.

She gets up and heads out of the lounge.

Willow:  (sighs) The whole Angel thing is so weird.

Giles:  (slowly sits next to Xander) Yes, well, we'll have to see how 
that unfolds, won't we?

Cut to Faith's motel room. She's lying on the bed, flipping through a 
magazine and watching Dragnet in black and white. A man opens his door 
to talk with the officers.

Man:  Yes, sir?

Friday:  Police officers. My name's Friday, this is...

There's a knock on Faith's door.

Man:  How are you?

Faith:  Come in.

Buffy opens the door, peeks in and then comes into the room.

Buffy:  Hey.

Man:  Called the police just a little while ago. Talked to a man down 
there. I didn't get his name, though.

Buffy:  The place looks nice.

Faith:  Yeah, it's real Spartan.

Friday:  Can you show us where they broke in, please?

Buffy:  How are you?

Faith:  Five-by-five.

Buffy:  I'll interpret that as good.

Faith doesn't respond, but just continues paging through her magazine.

Buffy:  Look, Gwendolyn Post, or whoever she may be, had us all fooled. 
Even Giles.

Faith:  (without looking up) Yeah, well, you can't trust people. I 
should've learned that by now.

Buffy:  I realize this is gonna sound funny coming from someone that 
just spent a lot of time kicking your face... but you can trust me.

Faith:  (looks up, amused) Is that right? (tosses the magazine aside)

Buffy:  I know I kept secrets, but I didn't have a choice. I'm on your 
side.

Faith:  *I'm* on my side, (nods) and that's enough.

Buffy:  (shakes her head) Not always.

Faith:  (shrugs) Is that it?

Buffy:  Yeah, I guess.

Faith:  Alright. Well, then, I'll see you.

She averts her eyes and stares at the TV. Buffy takes the hint and 
turns to go. Faith shakes her head, having a second thought.

Faith:  Uh, Buffy?

Buffy:  (faces her expectantly) Yeah?

Faith reconsiders again for a long moment, and changes her mind again.

Faith:  Nothing.

Buffy lowers her eyes, disappointed. Slowly she turns back to the door, 
opens it and leaves.

Faith looks around her Spartan room and inhales and exhales deeply. Cut 
outside. Buffy goes over to the stairs and pauses for a moment, staring 
sadly into space, and then starts down the steps. Cut inside. The camera 
pulls back on Faith alone in her bed, staring out of the window for a 
moment, then back at the TV.








[an error occurred while processing this directive]


