
   Graduation Day Part 2 - Buffy Episode 56 Transcript
   
    



Buffy Episode #56: "Graduatoin Day" (Part 2) Transcript

Disclaimer: none of this is mine
it all belongs to Joss Whedon, Mutant Enemy and Fox respectively. 
I just wrote the story down.  :-)


Previously on Buffy, the Vampire Slayer:
Oz is kissing Willow.  Willow: "What are
you doing?"  Oz: "Panicking."
Oz and Willow in bed after Oz is done panicking.
In the library the Mayor throws the rapier back
to Giles, who catches it.  Mayor:  "See you at the Graduation."
Buffy and Angel in the sewers.  Buffy: 
"I want my life to be with you."  Angel: "I don't."  Buffy: 
"I can't believe you're breaking up with me."
On the street in front of the Professor's place
Angel gets shot and collapses.
In the library Buffy pulls out the arrow, Giles
smells it.  Voice over by Angel: "It's poison.  I can feel it."
Angel collapses on the floor.
Oz looking up from a book:  "The only way
to cure this thing is to drain the blood of a Slayer."
Buffy and Faith fighting in her apartment. 
Buffy voice over:  "If Angel needs to drain the blood of a Slayer
then I'll bring him one."
Buffy and Faith fall through the window. 
Buffy stabs Faith.  Faith voice over:  "You killed me." 
Faith falls and lands on the bed of a truck driving by.
Buffy lays down the knife looking shocked then
walks over to a ladder and climbs down the outside of the building.
Pan over and up to the Mayor looking out through
the broken window.  The Mayor turns around as a vampire comes up behind
him and says:  "There is no one here, Sir."
Mayor:  "No.  No, she took the fight
outside.  My Faith doesn't like to be cooped up."  Walks over
to the vampire.  "We have to find them.  Put everyone on it. 
Do it now."  Turns away from the vampire.
Vampire:  "But Sir, the ascension…"
Mayor spins back around and screams at the vampire: 
"Find them!"  The vampire leaves.
The Mayor starts pacing around, clearly very
worried, talking to himself:  "Faith's a good girl.  She can
take anything they'll throw at her.  She's going to be all right. 
She'll be all right.  She'll be all right."
Part 2
Library:  Giles comes out of his office massaging
his right shoulder, while Xander walks in carrying a Styrofoam cup.
Xander:  "Any word from Buffy?"
Giles sits down at the table:  "Not yet."
Xander:  "Here is your cup of coffee. 
Brewed from the finest Colombian lighter fluid" Sits down across form Giles.
Giles:  "Thank you." Takes a sip. 
"Horrible." Takes another sip.
Xander:  "Aren't you supposed to be drinking
tea anyway?"
Giles:  "Tea is soothing.  I wish to
be tense."
Xander:  "Okay.  But you are destroying
a perfectly good cultural stereotype here." Grins.
Giles puts down his cup:  "Look through
the, ah… Kepler (?) volumes."  Xander picks up a book.  "Any
reference to the demon Olvukan."  Xander opens the book.  "Powers,
weaknesses, hat size, anything.  There's got to be something."
Xander:  "Still batting zero?"  Giles
looks at him. "But I mean, ah… in cricket?"
Cordelia walks into the library looking upset.
Xander looks up from flipping pages:  "Cordy! 
What's up?"
Cordelia:  "I demand an explanation."
Xander:  "For what?"
Cordelia:  "Wesley."
Xander:  "Uh - inbreeding?"
Cordelia:  "So very funny.  Any minute
I am sure to laugh.  I just got off the phone with him.  He could
hardly speak he was so upset.  He said there was something about a
fight?  And he is leaving the country."
Giles:  "Should I assay remorse?"
Cordelia:  "Just tell me what's going on."
Giles:  "Buffy has quit the council. 
She'll not be working with Wesley from now on."
Cordelia puzzled:  "But he is her Watcher."
Giles:  "Buffy no longer needs a Watcher."
Cordelia:  "Well, does he have to leave
the country?  I mean, you got fired, and you still hang around like
a big loser.  Why can't he?"
Xander:  "Cordelia.  We are trying
to stop a massacre here.  Want to give us a hand?"
Cordelia hesitates a moment then walks over to
a chair taking off her jacket.  "Sure.  -  This is just
*such* a Buffy thing to do."  Sits down.  "She is *always* thinking
of herself."
Cut to the mansion.  Angel is laying in bed. 
The arrow wound looks red and inflamed.  He is twisting restlessly,
clearly in pain, and moaning softly.  Willow dabs at his sweaty forehead
with a wet rag.  Angel opens his eyes.
Willow:  "You're awake."
Angel reaches for her hand:  "You've been
watching over me?"  Willow nods.  Angel takes her hand and starts
kissing it.  He lays his other hand on  Willows right arm.
Willow taken aback and slightly worried: 
"Well, - we've been taking turns."
Angel:  "I thought… - I thought I'd never
see you again" Willow looks at him surprised and confused.  Angel
shakes his head  "I can't leave you.  I was wrong.  I need
you."
Willow pulls her hand out of his:  "Oh!"  
she pats his hand  "You mean you need Buffy!"
Angel lifts his head squinting his eyes at her. 
"Willow?'
Willow relieved:  "Yes, - right!" 
She points at herself smiling  "Willow!"
Angel trying to sit up:  "Where is she?"
Willow pushes him back down worried:  "She'll
be back soon."  Angel sinks back and closes his eyes.
Willow gets up and walks out into the main room
where Oz is waiting for her.
Oz:  "Any change?"
Willow:  "He's delirious.  He thought
I was Buffy."
Oz:  "You too, huh?"
Willow:  "I hope she gets here soon. 
She better if… "
Oz sighs: "Yeah."
Willow:  "I feel so… I feel so guilty."
Oz:  "Guilty?"
Willow:  "Well, things are so terrible,
and things are coming apart, - but in some ways, this is the best night
of my life."
Oz blinks and reaches for her hand with a half
smile: "Us."
Willow smiles, nods and moves closer to him: 
"Us."  They kiss.  The door opens, Buffy walks in slowly, staring
at the ground.  Willow and Oz break apart guiltily.
Willow:  "I just checked on him, just now. 
We're watching."
Buffy walks up to then, looking unhappy. 
The left corner of her bottom lip is busted.
Oz:  "Did you find Faith?"  Buffy just
looks at them saying nothing.
Willow:  "You didn't…  She's not here?"
Buffy shakes her head slightly:  "How is
he?"
Oz:  "He comes in and out.  I think
the - pain is - less.  Now."
Buffy frowns slightly:  "Would you guys…
- I'd like to be alone with him."
Oz and Willow look at each other.  Oz nods: 
"Of course."  As they walk past Buffy Willow turns to her and says: 
"We'll try to find another cure."
Buffy quietly as they leave the house: 
"Thanks."
Cut to Angel lying on his bed.  Buffy sits
down and takes his hand.
Angel:  "Buffy."  Buffy lays her right
hand against the side of his face  "Is that you?"
Buffy gives him a slight smile:  "It's me."
Angel tries to smile in return:  "I didn't
want to go, without seeing you."  Buffy puts a finger on his lips
to stop him from talking.
Buffy:  "Angel, I can cure you."
Angel:  "It's okay. - I'm ready."
Buffy:  "Angel listen to me." Takes a hold
of his shoulders.  "Sit up."  Angel scoots up a little higher,
but he is weak and moving clearly hurts a great deal.
Buffy:  "You're gonna live.  You have
to live."
Angel frowns:  "What way?"
Buffy:  "Drink…"  Angel frowns at her. 
Buffy takes off her jacket, a determined expression on her face. 
"Drink me."
Angel stares at her in shock, he shakes his head
rejecting the idea: "No."
Buffy:  "It's the only way."
Angel keeps shaking his head and forces himself
up out of the bed, pushing Buffy aside:  "No. - Get away."
Buffy takes a hold of his right arm as he stands
up, looking up at him:  "It'll save you."
Angel is looking down at the floor:  "It'll
kill you."
Buffy:  "Maybe not. -. Not if you don't
take it all."
Angel keeps shaking his head, still not looking
at her:  "You can't ask me to do that."
Buffy:  "I won't let you die.  I can't." 
He still won't look at her.  "Angel the blood of a Slayer is the only
cure."
Angel finally glances at Buffy: "Faith…"
Buffy swallows and answers quietly:  "I
tired. - I killed her."
Angel shakes his head and lurches away from Buffy: 
"Then it's over."  Angel stumbles into the main room.  He has
trouble walking straight.  Bumps into the wall, then stumbles and
catches himself on the sofa table, spilling a pewter pitcher and plate
onto the floor.  Buffy grabs him by the arms and pulls him up to face
her.
Buffy:  "It is never over!  I won't
let you die.  Drink!"
Angel glances up at her swaying in her grip:
"Please…"
Buffy looks at him, then pulls back her right
fist and hits his left temple.  His head snaps around but he stays
on his feet.  He turns back to look at Buffy and she hits him again. 
He still doesn't go down, but it takes him a little longer to come back
up.  Buffy hits him a third time and this time Angel spins back with
a growl vamped out.  He just stands there, staring at her, while Buffy
pulls down the shoulder strap of her shirt, then grabs him by the hair
at the back of his head.  She looks at him for a moment then firmly
pulls his head down against her neck and holds him there.  For a moment
they remain like this.  Then we see a close-up of his yellow eye looking
down and he suddenly bites down.  Buffy gasps with the pain but holds
still.  Angel is holding on to her now and you get to hear all those
sucking and drinking noises.  Close-up of his mouth on Buffy's neck:
Some blood is running out beneath his lips and running down her shoulder. 
Buffy's face scrunches up, she mouths what looks like 'Oh Lord' and slowly
sinks backwards to the floor.  With Angel lying on top still drinking,
Buffy's left hand reaches out and finds the pewter pitcher.  She crushes
it in her hand.  The camera keeps jerking around the whole time, and
Buffy is clearly not enjoying the experience.  She puts her hands
against his sides as if she was going to push him off, but kicks out with
her left leg instead, breaking the sofa table in half.  She stares
up into the camera a tear in the corner of her left eye.  Then her
eyes drift shut and her head sinks to the side just as Angel finally rolls
off her, panting.  His face morphs back to human and he pushes himself
up looking over at Buffy.  The redness around the arrow wound is gone.
Angel worried: "Buffy?"  She lies motionless
eyes closed.
Angel bending over her:  "Buffy!"
Part 3
Angel runs into the hospital carrying a limp Buffy
in his arms.
Angel: "I need some help!  She lost a lot
of blood."
Nurse:  "What happened?"
Angel runs into the ER:  "She needs blood."
Nurse:  "Try to stay calm.  We're going
to take care of her."
Angel lays Buffy down on a bed:  "Something
bit her.  She needs a transfusion."
Doctor:  "You found her?"  Angel: "Yes." 
Doctor:  "Was she conscious?"
Angel:  "Yes."  Doctor:  "Are
you *sure*?"  Angel:  "I'm sure."
Doctor:  "Okay."  To the nurse: 
"I need a type, I need cross-match.  Get her on two lines of Wringer's
lactate, and watch for hyper-bulimic shock."  To Angel:  "Tell
me: What - happened?"
Angel:  "Something bit her.  I don't
know what."
Doctor (to nurse):  "Okay.  I need
a rabies shot treatment.  (to Angel)  Any allergies?"
Angel:  "None."  He rips the handle
of the door without really noticing what he's doing.   The doctor
jumps back surprised.  Angel (clearly upset and at the end of his
patience):  "*Just* help her."
Doctor after a beat:  "You two been doing
drugs? (Angel just looks at him) You want her to live, you have to be straight
with me."
Angel:  "She's clean."
Doctor:  "All right.  Wait outside. 
Let us work."
Angel:  "A phone."
Doctor:  "Right out there."
With a last look at Buffy laying on the bed Angel
leaves the room and goes over to a payphone digging some change out of
his pocket.  There is a police officer standing in the hall. 
While Angel dials we hear a different doctor:  "The bones are set,
and the damage to the kidneys is repairable."  Camera pans through
a nearby door to show a doctor talking to a distraught looking Mayor. 
"But the head trauma, its… well its simply to severe.  You know, it’s
a wonder she's alive at all, with the blood loss. - I… I'm sorry Sir, there
is almost no chance at all that she is ever going to regain consciousness."
Camera pans over to show Faith laying in a hospital
bed.  She looks badly bruised.  She is wearing an oxygen tube,
an IV, and several monitoring devices.  You can hear a heart monitor
beeping.  The Mayor reaches down and gently brushes her hair from
her forehead and strokes her cheek.
Mayor:  "It's your day."  Camera pans
to show a nurse coming up to the doctor behind him.
Nurse:  "We have another girl with severe
blood loss.  Doctor Pal wants you to prep this on an anti cubal cut
down (??)."
Doctor:  "I'll be right there."
Camera pans back to the Mayor, who realizes just
who that other girl must be.  He leaves the room and walks over to
Buffy's bed.  He puts his left hand over her mouth, also blocking
her nose.  Buffy starts to move her head with a soft protest.
A nurse comes in and tries to pull his hand away,
but is unable to budge him. :"Oh, my God.  Sir!  No!"  She
turns and runs out of the room shouting:  "Somebody call security!"
Close up on Buffy struggling harder.  A
pair of hands grab the Mayor and push him away from the bed.
Angel:  "Don't do that!"
The Mayor stumbles back, then gets right into
Angel's face:  "I will.  I do that and *worse*. (looks over Angel's
shoulder at Buffy)  Murderous little fiend!  Did you see what
she did to my Faith?"
Angel:  "Hadn't any plans to weep over that
one."
Mayor seriously upset:  "Well, I'd get set
for some weeping if I were you.  I'd get set for a *world* of pain! 
Misery loves company, young man, and I'm looking to share that with you
and your *whore*!"
Angel's hands shoot forward and he throws him
clear across the room.  The Mayor impacts with a window looking onto
the corridor, breaking it, then drops to the floor overturning a small
metal hospital table holding various implements.  The noise brings
two nurses to see what's going on.  The Mayor looks up at a mad Angel
and picks himself up laughing.
Mayor brushing off his suit and gesturing towards
Angel:  "Looks like somebody has been eating his spinach.  (looking
over to the two nurses)  No, its okay, folks.  It's all right. 
The show's not over, but there will be a short intermission. (looks back
at Angel)  Don't want to miss the second act.  (walks by Angel
and out the door)  All kinds of excitement!"
Angel breathing deeply:  "I'll be there." 
Swallowing hard he looks back at Buffy laying still on the bed.
Cut to the hallway: Angel is crouched down next
to the door to Buffy's room, his back against the wall.  The door
at the end of the hallway opens.  Giles, Willow, Oz and Xander come
in.  Angel gets up.
Giles:  "How is she?"
Angel:  "She's fine.  She's asleep."
Oz with a puzzled frown:  "Well, you seem
all right, too."
Angel looks down and wraps his arms around himself: 
"Yeah."
Xander looks him up and down:  "What happened?"
Willow:  "When we left her she was fine. 
Did Faith…"
Angel interrupts her still not looking at any
of them:  "Faith's out of the picture.  Buffy put her into a
coma."
Xander takes a deep breath and stares at Angel: 
"And?"
Angel shaken and still not meeting their eyes: 
"Buffy cured me. - Made me…" trails off.
Giles:  "You fed off her."
Angel looks up at him, takes a deep breath and
nods his head once:  "Yes."
Giles rather stern:  "How much?"  Xander
swallows hard and looks away.
Angel:  "She's gonna be fine."
Willow:  "She won't be a vampire?"
Angel looking down again:  "No. - She didn't
feed off me."
Xander shakes his head:  "Well, its just
good to know that when the chips are down and things look grim you'll feed
off the girl who *loves* you to save your own *ass*!"
Angel says nothing.  Willow and Oz just
look at him.
Giles curtly:  "You better go, Angel. 
We'll watch over her."
Angel shakes is head:  "I don't want to…"
Giles interrupts in a hard voice:  "The
sun will be up soon."
Angel hesitates, clearly reluctant to leave,
glances up at Giles.  Swallows hard and nods looking down, half looks
towards Buffy's room, then slowly walks away.
Xander shakes his head:  "Gosh, I'm really
going to miss him when he leaves town."
Giles:  "Let's go find out how Buffy's doing." 
They walk out of the picture as Angel leaves through the door at the end
of the hallway.
Cut to Buffy walking through Faith's apartment
her arms crossed in front of her.  There are cardboard boxes stacked
everywhere.  Buffy stops and sees a cat jump up on Faith's bed.
Buffy:  "Who's going to look after him?"
Faith:  "It's a she.  And aren't these
things supposed to take care of themselves?" walks up behind Buffy and
stops next to her.
Buffy:  "A higher power guiding us?"
Faith looks at her then turns away and keeps
walking towards the camera:  "I'm pretty sure that's not what I meant."
Buffy looking down:  "There's something
I'm supposed to be doing."
Faith:  "Oh yeah. - Miles to go - Little
Ms. Muffet counting down from 7-3-0."
Buffy grimaces:  "Great. - Riddles."
Faith standing in front of the broken window
looking out:  "Sorry, it's my head.  A lot of new stuff."
Buffy looks at her with a half smile.  The
cat on the bed turns for a split second into the image of a girl (Faith?)
laying on the bed in white gown at the same time as Faith still looking
out the broken window says:  "They are never going to fix this, are
they?"
Buffy concerned:  "What about you?"
Faith turns around and gestures at her head: 
"Scar tissue.  It fades.  It all fades."
Buffy looks down with a frown.  For a split
second Faith's bloody knife appears in the palm of her hand.
Faith as Buffy looks back up:  "You want
to know the deal?  Human weakness - never goes away.  Not even
his."
Buffy with a half smile:  "Is this your
mind or mine?"
Faith with a short laugh:  "Beats me." 
Buffy gives a little laugh in return and looks down.  Faith walks
towards her:  "Getting towards that time."
Buffy looks at all the boxes and the weapons
laid out on the table beside her:  "How are you going to fit all this
stuff?"
Faith:  "Not gonna.  It's yours."
Buffy:  "I can't use all of this!"
Faith:  "Just take what you need. 
(reaches her right hand up to touch Buffy's cheek)  "You're ready?"
Flash to white and to Buffy waking up in the
hospital.  She gets out of bed and slowly walks over to where Faith
lies.  She looks down at her then softly kisses her forehead.
Cut to Buffy, fully dressed, walking down the
corridor where Xander is pacing while the others are sitting on a bench. 
They see her and get up to greet her.
Willow:  "Buffy!"
Xander:  "Are you okay?"
Giles:  "How do you feel?"
Buffy looks around:  "Is Angel here?"
Oz:  "He had to go.  It got kinda sunny."
Buffy:  "Get him.  Get everyone."
Xander:  "What exactly is up?"
Giles:  "Buffy, are you sure you're all
right?"
Buffy:  "I'm ready."
Willow:  "Ready for what?"
Buffy:  "War."
Part 4
In front of Sunnydale High: there are benches
set up for the graduation and a podium for the speaker.  Snyder stands
at a table holding a box full of diplomas, tapping one of them in his hands
and looking around, then sticking it into the box with the others.
Cut to the library: Buffy is sitting on a chair
with her back to the door, facing the others.  Giles and Xander on
the right side of the table, Willow and Oz on the left, Cordelia standing
just left of the steps, while Angel is over against the wall on the right
side of the steps in the shadows.
Buffy:  "So, am I crazy?"
Willow:  "Well, 'crazy' is such a *strong*
word."
Giles chewing on his glasses:  "Let's not
rule it out though."
Buffy:  "You don't think it can be done?"
Giles:  "I didn't say that.  I might,
- but not yet."
Cordelia:  "I personally don't think it's
impossible to come up with a crazier plan."
Oz:  "We attack the Mayor with humus." 
Everyone looks at him.
Cordelia:  "I stand corrected."
Oz:  "Just trying to keep things in perspective."
Cordelia sarcastic:  "Thank you. - My point
however is, crazy or not, it's pretty much the only plan. - Besides, it's
Buffy's, - and she's slay gal, - you know, Ms little Likes-to-fight. 
So.."
Xander interrupts her:  "I think there was
a 'yea' vote buried in there somewhere."
Buffy:  "Well, I'm going to need every single
one of you on board.  Especially you Xander.  You're sort of
the key figure here."
Xander:  "Key? - Me?  (takes a deep
breath) Okay, - pride, - humility, - and here is the mind numbing fear. 
(sighs)  What do I have to do?"
Buffy:  "Do you remember any of your military
training from when you became soldier guy?"
Xander points at her:  "Uh, rocket launcher?"
Buffy regretfully:  "Rocket launcher not
going to get it done.  I mean, it took a volcano to kill one of these
things last time."
Giles gets up and walks towards her:  "Um,
Buffy, all of this is rather depended on your being able to control the
Mayor."
Buffy:  "Faith told me to play on his human
weakness."
Willow:  "Faith told you?  Was that
before or after you put her into a coma?"
Buffy:  "After."  Willow:  "Oh." 
Then looks confused over at Oz.
Giles:  "His weakness."  Buffy: 
"Right."  Giles:  "Which is…?"
Buffy:  "You know I do all this planing. 
I'm in charge here, even though I am really not at my best…"
Giles puts his glasses back on:  "Well,
let's… let's…ah, let's think."
Oz:  "Well, Angel, you hung with him the
most.  Is there something that he's afraid of?"  Buffy's looking
down uncomfortably.
Angel:  "Well, he's not crazy about germs."
Cordelia:  "Of course, that's it. 
We attack him with germs!"
Buffy:  "Great!  We'll corner him and
then you can sneeze on him."
Cordelia gesturing excitedly:  "No! 
No, we'll get a box with the Ebola virus and… and….  Or it doesn't
even have to be real, we can just get a box that says Ebola on it and…
uhm (snaps her fingers) chase him… (Oz frowns and no one else says anything) 
with the box…"
Xander:  "I'm starting to lean towards the
humus offensive."
Oz:  "He'll never see it coming."
Angel:  "Faith."  Buffy glances over
at him and asks: "Faith?"
Angel:  "At the hospital he was grieving. 
Seriously crazed, and not just in a homicidal I want to be a demon way. 
(Wesley comes in the door behind Buffy)  She is his weak link."
Buffy:  "Faith.  (looks up at Giles) 
I can work that."
Wesley coming up behind her:  "You haven't
an enormous amount of time."
Xander:  "Hey it's Mr. States-the-Obvious."
Buffy without turning around:  "The council
is not welcome here.  I have no time for orders.  If I need someone
to scream like a woman I'll give you a call."
Wesley comes to stand next to her:  "I'm
not here for the council.  Just tell me how I can help."  Buffy
looks up at him.
Cordelia:  "That is so classy!  (looks
around at the others)  Isn't he just so classy?"
Buffy:  "It's a start."
Wesley:  "So there is something I can do…
besides scream like a woman."
Buffy:  "There is plenty.  There is
chores for everyone.  (Get up off her chair)  Okay, this is…"
Cut to the Mayor speaking to his hench-vamps: 
"…how it's going to lay out.  The transformation should begin at exactly
3:28.  I'll just be finishing my speech - you know, it's too bad you
fellows have to miss that, because I think it speaks to everyone of us. 
I mean, heck, I've been working on it for a hundred years.  It better
be good.  (laughs)  They'll try to run, of course, and this is
when I'll need you boys in flanking position."
Vampire:  "But Sir, the sun!"
Mayor:  "Not a problem."  Blends into
the library and Wesley reading:  "Darkness will follow and day becomes
night."
Buffy stands next to him with her arms crossed: 
"An eclipse."
Wesley:  "Standard procedure for an ascension?"
Angel steps up to them:  "That puts me back
into the game."
Buffy:  "Yea, it does.  You and Xander
are going to have to work together now.  Can you guys handle that?"
Neither one of them looks precisely overjoyed
at the prospect.
Xander:  "But I'm still key-guy, right?" 
Buffy: "Right."  Xander:  "Then Angel, - in his non key-guy capacity,
- can work with me."
Angel sarcastic:  "What fun."
Xander to Angel:  "Hey!  Key-guy is
still talking…"
Buffy:  "Oh, that's good!  Start bickering. 
That's going to look great for us.  (walks past them towards the steps) 
You guys are like little old ladies!"
Cut to the Mayor pointing at a map:  "You
come up through the sewers here.  The important thing is containment. 
I'll need to feed.  It's crucial in the first few minutes to sustain
the change.  What does that mean?  (shakes his finger at them) 
No snacking.  I see blood on your lips, it's a visit to the wood shed
for you boys.  Kill.  Don't feed."
Cut to Buffy coming to look over Oz' and Willow's
shoulders as they are looking through some books on the table of the library. 
Buffy:  "So, how are we coming on vulcano detail?"
Oz:  "I think we can work it out."
Willow:  "Fun with chemistry."
Buffy:  "Xander said he should be able to
get the materials."
Oz:  "Who's going to stoke it up?"
Buffy turns to Giles coming up beside them: 
"You feel up to it?"
Giles taking off his glasses:  "Ah, I suppose
it should be I.  It's strangely fitting in a grotesque fashion."
Buffy:  "Okay guys, start reaching out. 
Giles: weapons, weapons, weapons."  Starts walking out.
Giles:  "Ah, what about you?"
Buffy:  "There is something I have to get."
Cut to the Mayor:  "Remember: fast and brutal. 
It's going to be a whole new world come nightfall, don't want to weaken
now.   (the vampires start leaving his office)  And boys?
- Let's watch the swearing."
Cut to Xander walking into a classroom where
Harmony is talking with two other girls.
Xander takes her by the arm:  "Harmony,
listen, I need to talk to you for a second."
Harmony:  "You mean in front of other people?" 
Xander grimaces and pulls her out of the room.
Cut to Percy wearing his graduation gown: 
"Are they serious?  I'm going to look stupid in this!"
Willow comes up behind him:  "Percy!"
Percy turns to her:  "Do I look stupid in
this?  Be honest."
Willow:  "You look great.  You got
a sec?"
Cut to Wesley and Cordelia putting books into
boxes in the library.  The glance at each other a couple of times
when the other isn't looking, but continue packing.
Wesley straightens up and says firmly: 
"Cordelia."
Cordelia spins around to face him: "Yes."
Wesley:  "You know that… when this is over…" 
Cordelia:  "Yes."  Wesley:  "uhm, well, should we prevail…
I'll be going back to England."
Cordelia turns back to the shelf and take down
another book:  "I know."
Wesley shifting awkwardly:  "With Buffy
no longer working for the council, there really is… no place for me here."
Cordelia turns back around and steps closer to
him:  "I guess not."
Wesley takes a step towards her clasping his
hands in front of him:  "No… reason to stay."  Cordelia inches
closer:  "No."  Wesley inches close as well:  "No. 
No… cause to hope that…(takes off his glasses while Cordy looks down) 
I might be needed?"  Cordy looks up at him:  "Needed?" 
Wesley:  "Or… wanted…"  Cordelia:  "Wanted…"
Wesley takes a deep breath and leans down to
kiss Cordy putting his hands behind his back.  Cordy puts a on his
shoulder and tries to kiss him.  They bump noses and juggle awkwardly. 
Wesley waves his hand s around in the air beside Cordy.   Cordy
tries to wrap her arms around his back to pull him (unsuccessfully) closer. 
They maneuver around a bit more then pull back to look at each other breaking
apart.  Cordy looks to the side and wipes her mouth.  They try
again but with about as much success.  They break back apart and Cordy
sighs in frustration and disappointment.  She wipes her mouth again
and looks back up at him taking a deep breath:  "Good look in England."
Wesley nods and puts his glasses back on: "Yes,
uhm, I'll drop you a line some time."
Cordy smiles at him:  "That'll be neat."
Wesley smiles back at her:  "Yes, hmm…"
Wesley wipes his mouth as they turn away from each other and go back to
packing up the books.
Cut to Larry and Jonathon taking sacks of fertilizer
(?)  from Oz and Willow out of Oz' black van and putting them into
a shopping cart.
Oz:  "Okay, put these with the others. 
Don't touch anything."
Jonathon:  "Uh, wha… what do we do then?"
Oz:  "Nothing."
Willow:  "Just relax.  Have a good
time."
Jonathon:  "O… Okay."
Larry:  "Okay, it's clear.  Lets move." 
Starts moving off with the shopping cart while Jonathon shuts the van's
sliding door.
Cut inside the van.
Willow:  "I guess that's it.  Won't
be long now."
Oz (concerned):  "You nervous?"
Willow swallows:  "Only in a… terrified
way."
Oz takes her hand:  "We'll make it through
this."
Willow:  "Are you sure?"
Oz considers:  "I sound pretty sure, don't
I?"
Willow smiles:  "Yeah."
Oz half smiles:  "Then I must be sure."
Willow frowns at him:  "Is that just a comforting
way of not answering the question?"
Oz blinks and almost shrugs.  Willow and
oz lean forward and they kiss softly.  Oz puts his hand up to caress
the side of her head.  They kiss some more.
Willow pulls away just a little and slowly opens
her eyes:  "How long till graduation?"
Oz:  "A little while."
Willow moves to kiss him again.
Cut to Buffy walking into Giles office where Angel
is sorting through weapons.  When she sees Angel she hesitates for
a moment, then continues in.
Angel with out turning around to see who came
in:  "Did you get what you needed?"
Buffy coming up next to him:  "Yeah, I did. 
(looks at the weapons)  This isn't going to be enough."
Angel still looking down at the stuff on the
table:  "Giles is on it.  (as Buffy turns and starts to leave
he turns and asks quickly)  How are you?"
Buffy stops and slowly turns towards him avoiding
his eyes she says quietly:  "I heal fast.  Like you."  then
louder:  "So, are we sure that everyone knows what their position…"
Angel interrupts her looking down at the table,
quietly:  "I'm not going to say good-bye."  Buffy looks up at
him with a frown, which slowly dissolves.  Angel glances up at her,
looks back down, swallows then looks back up:  "If we get through
this… I'm just going to go." Buffy slowly looks down.
Angel:  "You understand?  (Buffy nods
slightly and swallows hard)  There is just too much to…"  Buffy
puts up a hand to stop him.  Angel hesitates a moment then puts down
the crossbow bolt he has been playing with and turns to leave quietly. 
Buffy takes a slow breath then looks down at her hands and unwraps the
white cloth in her hand to reveal Faith's knife with some dried blood still
coloring the blade.
Cut to the quad and the student taking their seats. 
The music stops and the students sit down.
Snyder at the podium:  "Congratulations
to the class of 1999.  You all proved more or less adequate. 
This is a time of celebration, so: sit still and be quiet.  (Surveys
the students)  Spit out that gum. - Please welcome our distinguished
guest speaker: Richard Wilkins the 3rd.  (to one of the students) 
I saw that gesture.  You see me after graduation."  Turns and
claps.
Cut to the students clapping and Willow and Oz
running to take their places.  Willow sits down next to Buffy.
Willow:  "Am I late?  To the fight? 
(?)"
The Mayor shakes Snyder's hand and steps up to
the podium.  Smiles and takes out some cue cards.
Mayor clears his throat and surveys the students: 
"Well.  What a day this is! - Special day.  Today is our centennial
the one hundreds anniversary of the founding of Sunnydale, and I know what
that means to all you kids: not - a darn thing.  Because today something
much more important happens: today you all graduate from high school. 
Today all the pain, all the work, all the excitement is finally over. 
And what's a hundred years of history compared to that?  You know
what
kids? …"
Buffy:  "Oh my God.  He's going to
do the entire speech."
Willow:  "Man, just ascend already."
Buffy:  "Evol!"
Mayor:  "… for all of you it may be that
there is a place in Sunnydale's history, whether you like it or not. 
It's been a long road getting here.  For you… for Sunnydale. 
There has been achievement, joy, good times,… and there has been grief. 
There's been loss.  Some people who should be here today… aren't. 
(close-up on Buffy listening)  But we are. - Journey's end. 
And what is a journey?  Is it just… distance traveled?  Time
spent?  (shakes his head) No.  It's what happens on the way,
it the things that happen to you.  At the end of the journey you're
not the same.  Today is about change. (close-up on Willow)  Graduation
doesn't just mean your circumstances change, it means you do.  You
ascend… to a higher level.  (Pan across Xander and Cordy)  Nothing
will ever be the same.  (a shadow falls across the Mayor)  Nothing." 
He looks up.  Buffy and the other students look up to see the sun
being totally blocked.  The Mayor flinches in pain.  Then swallows
and continues his speech:  "And so as we look back on…  (Pain
hits him again and he turns half to the side groaning)  on the events
that brought us to this day  (another wave of pain)  "
Buffy with her hat off:  "Come on."
Mayor:  "We… (stops in pain again 
all the students are watching tensely)  we must all…(screams) (the
students and the faculty look at each other uneasily)  It has begun. 
My destiny.  (smiles)  It's a little sooner then I expected I
had this whole section on civic pride… (shuffles cue cards)  But I
guess we'll just skip to the big finish!"
Buffy and Willow look at each other as the Mayor
starts to grimace and stretch and grow.  His suit splits around him
and Snyder is leaning back in his seat looking taken aback.  The Mayor
suddenly transforms into a big snake-like demon with clawed mandibles surrounding
its mouth.  It keeps growing, stretching higher as the faculty abandons
their seats.  The students get up but stay in place staring up at
the Mayor, who seems to stretch up above the roof of the school.
Part 5
The Students stare up as the parents in the back
to panic and leave.  A group of vampires comes up the steps behind
the students.
Buffy:  "Now!"
All the students take off their gowns revealing
crosses, axes, and other assorted weaponry.
Buffy:  "Flame units." (Several students
(including Larry point flame throwers at the Mayor and start flaming him. 
The Mayor sways above the students screaming.  Buffy nods at Xander.
Xander:  "First wave! (a group of students
including Willow aim cross bows loaded with lance points at the Mayor) 
Fire!"
The Mayor screams and sways then lunges down
and swallows a student in the first row.  Buffy stares in shock, as
some of the students start milling around.
Snyder upset:  "This… this is simply unacceptable!"
Three up the students break and run right into
the group of vampires waiting on the steps.  Oz looks over as they
are quickly killed by the vampires.
Oz turns back around:  "Xander?"
Xander:  "Arm bow men  (Oz and some
others pick up long bows and arrows.  The vampires slowly move up
the steps as the kids lit their arrows on fire and take aim)  Fire!"
The students let fly a mass and several vampires
are hit and turn into flaming dust.  Xander looks back at the students
in front of the Mayor.  Jonathan comes flying through the air and
lands on top some students knocking them down.
Buffy to the students around her:  "Fall
back!"
Xander to the bow men:  "Fire!"
The students let fly with the fire arrows again
and several more vampires get hit.  The vampires turn to leave only
to find themselves confronted by another group of students led by Angel
who is flanked by Percy and Wesley.  They look at each other for a
moment then Angel's group attacks.  Angel starts beat up some vampires. 
Wesley runs up and right into a vampires fist, falls on his back (ala clothes
line trick).  Angel fights two or three vampires at once easily holding
his own.  The flame units once more shoot fire at the Mayor. 
Larry's flame thrower cuts out or jams and after a moment he put is down
and takes up a lance.  The Mayor's tail whips around, throwing Larry
up in the air.  He lands hard in front of the podium.
Cut to Angel throwing some vampires around. 
Cut to Buffy getting up on a chair and looking up at the Mayor.  Cut
to Snyder looking up:  "This is not orderly.  This is not discipline!" 
Cut to the Mayor's snake head whipping around.  Cut to Snyder talking
to the Mayor:  "You're on my campus buddy!"
Cut to view point of the Mayor looking down at
Snyder.  Snyder:  "And when I say I want quiet, I want…"
Cut to the Mayor's head coming down and swallowing
Snyder.  Buffy and Xander look on in horror.
Buffy to the students around her:  "Fall
Back!  Get back! (She gets down from her chair and turns to Willow) 
Go!"  Willow says:  "Good luck!" then leaves.
Buffy:  "Xander take 'em down."
Xander pulls a stake out of his back pocket: 
"Everyone: hand to hand!  (Buffy reaches into her jacket)  Everyone! 
Lets go!  Move!  Move!"
Cut to Angel sending a vampire flying, then taking
care of two others.  His group is driving the vampires back up the
steps.  One of them turns around and yells:  "Get the kids!" 
The other vampires turn to follow his lead only to find themselves confronted
with a mass of armed and angry teenagers with baseball bats, crosses and
stakes.  Harmony gets bit, but another girl starts whaling on her
attacker with a bat.  Jonathon jumps a vampire and falls down the
steps with him.
Xander struggling with another vampire: 
"Right flank close in.  Close!(pushes the vampire off)  Jason
and Paul(?) you guys are right flank!"
Cut to Angel punching another two vampires. 
Cut to Cordy staking a vampire coming at her in good form.  Cut to
Oz moving down the steps.  Cut to Wesley still laying on his back
lifting a hand and looking around.
Wesley groaning:  "How about some help here…" 
We see feet rushing past him.  Cut to students fighting.
Cut to the Mayor's head swing in the air.
Mayor's PoV:  Buffy:  "Hey!  (holds
Faith's knife in her right hand)  You remember this?  (Close
on Buffy looking up at the Mayor)  I took it from Faith.  Stuck
it in her gut.  (Looks at the knife then back up at the Mayor) 
Just slid in her like she was butter."  Cut to the Mayor gnashing
his teeth and growling.
Mayor's PoV:  Buffy:  "You want to
get it back from me (close up on Buffy) Dick?"
Camera from Mayor's PoV:  Buffy turns and
runs into the school with the Mayor in pursuit.
Cut to the hall:  Buffy opens the door and
runs in.  The Mayor barrels down the door and some of the surrounding
wall as he pursues her.  Buffy keeps running towards the library while
the Mayor tears through the school like a freight train.  Buffy runs
into the library, vaults a banister looking back at the Mayor.  The
Mayor looks around the library and sees the barrels of diesel fuel and
bags of fertilizer stacked everywhere.  Buffy keeps running and jumps
out of a window.  Cut to the Mayor looking around and growling.
Mayor (in his own voice that sounds like it is
coming from the bottom of a rain barrel):  "Well, gosh."
Cut to Buffy crouching down next to Giles who
pushes down the plunger.  Cut to a fire cloud erupting from the top
of the school.  Cut to Xander and Angel looking up at the explosion. 
Cut to some more explosions erupting from the school.  Cut to Percy
laying on the steps looking up at them.  Cut to Jonathon protectively
wrapping his arms around a girl as he looks at another explosion. 
Cut to more explosions erupting all along the school.  Cut to Buffy
and Giles nest to the plunger.  Close on Buffy staring then looking
over at Giles.
Cut to police cars and fire trucks parked in
front of the school.  The air is dark and smoky.  We see two
fire men wheeling a gurney with a groaning Wesley over towards an ambulance.
Wesley:  "If I could… could just get something
for the pain.  It's rather a lot of pain, actually.  Aspirin? 
If you would… uh… ah…(The fire men start sliding the gurney into the ambulance) 
Perhaps I could just be knocked unconscious."  More groaning as they
slide him into the ambulance.  Pan to Xander and Buffy walking by. 
Xander watches Wesley being put in the ambulance.  Buffy keeps looking
around her.
Xander:  "We got off pretty cheap… considering."
Buffy still looking around:  "Seems like
we did."
They walk a few more steps then Buffy stops still
looking around.  Xander stops beside her his hands buried in his pockets.
Xander:  "He made it through the fight. 
(Buffy whips around to look at him)  Guess maybe he  (take a
deep breath)  he took off after."  Buffy blinks and looks down. 
Xander makes a grimace then turns and walks away.  Buffy stand there,
again looking around, and Giles comes up to her.
Giles puts a hand on her shoulder:  "Are
you all right?"
Buffy lays her head to one side:  "I'm tired."
Giles smiles:  "I should imagine so. 
It's been quite a couple of days."
Buffy tiredly:  "I haven't processed everything
yet.  (with a small laugh)  My brain isn't really functioning
on the higher levels.  (takes a deep breath)  It's pretty much:
fire bad; tree pretty."
Giles shakes his head:  "Understandable. 
Well, when it's working again congratulate it on a good campaign. 
You did very well."
Buffy nods:  "Thank you.  I will."
Giles puts his glasses on:  "I ah… I managed
to ferret this out of the wreckage.  Now, it may not interest you,
but… (reaches into his jacket and pulls out a high school diploma) 
I'd say you earned it."  Hands it to Buffy who looks at it and takes
it.
Giles taking a deep breath and looking around: 
"There is a certain  (takes off his glasses) dramatic irony that's
attached to all this.  A Synchronicity that borders on… on predestination,
one might say."
Buffy looks at him:  "Fire bad; tree pretty.'
Giles looks at her:  "Yes, s…sorry. 
(puts his glasses back on)  I'm going to see to Wesley, see if he's…
is still… (suppressing a laugh) whimpering."  Walks off and Buffy
looks after him.  Suddenly she turns around a slight frown on her
face.  Her eyes lock on something and her face clears.  Cut to
Angel standing beside a fire truck looking at her.  Close on Angel's
face.  Close on Buffy's face.  Both just staring at each other. 
Buffy blinks and her face falls.  She hugs herself a little closer. 
Close on Angel, first obscured by some firemen walking by, then by a cloud
of smoke.  The smoke blows by and he steps back, slowly turns around
and walks off.  Cut to Buffy watching him leave.  Cut to Angel
disappearing into the smoke.
Cut to Willow sitting on a stone bench in front
of the school, Xander sitting beside her on the ground and Oz standing
behind her.  Cordelia come walking up to them.
Cordelia:  "Well, that’s the most fun you
can have without having any fun."
Willow smiling:  "How about the part where
we kicked some demon ass.  (Oz strokes her hair from behind) 
I didn't hate that."
Xander:  "Hear, hear!"
Buffy come walking up:  "You guys want to
take off?  I think we've done pretty much all we can."
Cordelia raises her eyebrows and nods: 
"I'm for it."
Willow looks up at Buffy:  "Are you okay?"
Buffy nods and says in a small voice:  "Yeah…
I'm okay. - I could use a little sleep though."
Willow nods and agrees emphatically:  "Yeah."
Buffy sits down on the bench next to her: 
"If someone could just wake me when it's time to go to college, that'd
be great."  Willow smiles at her.
Oz his hands in his pockets:  "Guys take
a moment to deal with this: - we survived."  Xander nods.
Buffy:  "It was a hell of a battle!"
Oz:  "Not the battle (Cordy looks at him)
high school."
They all look quietly at the school and listen
to the crickets chirping.
Oz:  "We're taking a moment  (Willow
and Buffy get up from the bench.  Oz looks at Cordy)  and we're
done."
Xander get up and walks off next to Cordelia: 
"Well, School's done."
Oz puts an arm around Willow as they all walk
off together.  Xander:  "It's ssso… Cool!"
Willow:  "Why do demons even come here any
more?  I mean, don't they know…"
Camera pans down to show a maroon Sunnydale High
99 yearbook with the word 'The Future Is Ours' on it.
Fade out.

 Send feedback to
hettinger@bigfoot.com



BLACK OUT


[an error occurred while processing this directive]



