

   As You Were - Buffy Episode Transcript
   
    
   



Buffy Episode #115: "As You Were" Transcript

Written by Douglas Petrie
Original Air Date: February 26, 2002


Transcribed by Joan the English Chick (pisces@englishchick.com).
Transcriber's Notes:
I do not own the characters or situations of BTVS, and I claim no credit for the content of this episode. I have merely transcribed what appeared on my screen, with help from the closed captions.
I prefer that you link to this transcript on the Psyche site rather than post it on your site, but you can post it on your site if you want, as long as you keep my name and email address on it. Please also keep my disclaimers intact.
You can use my transcripts in your fanfiction stories; you don't have to ask my permission. (However, if you use large portions of episode dialogue in your fanfic, I recommend you give credit to the person who wrote the episode.)
I apologize in advance for my lame transcription of the fight scenes. I don't know the names of different punches and kicks. Use your imagination.





GILES VOICEOVER: Previously...Riley and Buffy in "Into the 
  Woods"RILEY: They want me back, Buffy. The military.BUFFY: This is 
  good-bye?RILEY: Unless you give me a reason to stay, I'm leaving 
  tonight.Buffy walking away from Riley.Buffy running up to the 
  helipad.BUFFY: Riley!Riley in the helicopter flying away as Buffy 
  stands on the ground underneath.Spike and Buffy in the crypt.SPIKE: 
  Are we having a conversation?BUFFY: What? No! ...Maybe.Xander and Anya 
  in the magic shop.XANDER: We're getting married.BUFFY: 
  Congratulations.Xander and Anya kissing.Buffy in the Double Meat 
  Palace.BUFFY: Double meat is double sweet. Enjoy.DAWN: Hey 
  Buffy!ANYA: We're here to support your subsistence-level employment. 
  Bravo. 
  
  
  Teaser
  

  Open on exterior shot of the Double Meat Palace, night.TODD VOICEOVER: 
  You see, Buffy... 
  Cut to inside. Close shot of the grill. 
  TODD VOICEOVER: ...the thing you gotta learn about the Palace, and this 
  takes a while... 
  Pan over to where a scraper is scraping the grease from the top of the 
  grill. A bucket of grease sits beside it. Todd, a young man about Buffy's age, 
  is leaning against the wall nearby. 
  TODD: ...is that job security all boils down to one simple thing. 
  Reveal Buffy, doing the scraping. She looks over at Todd expectantly. 
  TODD: Politics. 
  Beat. Buffy resumes scraping. 
  TODD: Now, I'm not a political animal, but you learn fast around here or 
  it's wham! Hello glass ceiling. 
  Buffy makes a face as she lifts a spatula-ful of grease. Todd tips the 
  bucket so she can dump the grease into it. She resumes scraping. 
  TODD: I mean, it's not like we work at Burger World, or the Happy Bun, 
  where the power structure is simple. No, here at the Palace, you gotta keep 
  your friends close, but your enemies? Closer. (Buffy nodding, rolling her 
  eyes) It's like Machiavelli says. (Buffy looks confused) You know Machiavelli, 
  right?BUFFY: Tall guy, bleached mullet, works day shifts?TODD: 
  (laughs) I'm sorry. My bad. I keep forgetting you dropped out of 
  college.BUFFY: I'm reapplying.TODD: (patronizing) Good luck with that. 
  Well, gotta motor! (picks up a backpack) Don't wanna be late for night 
  school.BUFFY: You go to night school?TODD: I'm working on my MBA. 
  Think I wanna spend the rest of my life cleaning grease traps? (shakes head) 
  Ooh, don't forget to lock up before you go, and the gum under the tables? Be 
  sure to give it a good scrape before you leave.BUFFY: (sarcastic) May 
  I?TODD: (leaving) See you tomorrow!BUFFY: (to herself) Yes, you will. 
  And the day after that, (sighs) and the day after that, and the day after 
  that... 
  Cut to the graveyard, later. Buffy walks along holding a small paper bag 
  with the Double Meat logo. She wears a long caramel-colored coat over her 
  clothes. 
  BUFFY: (sings) 'Get the double treat, that's the double sweet, oh it's hard 
  to beat, when the meat meets-' Oh, why can't I get this stupid jingle out of 
  my head? 
  A vampire jumps out in front of her. 
  VAMP: Least of your problems now, little girl.BUFFY: Wait. 
  She turns to put the bag down carefully on a nearby headstone. 
  VAMP: Ooookay.BUFFY: (turns back) Okay, let's do this. (points at him) 
  Quickly. 
  The vamp swings at her. She ducks, then punches him. He reels aside and 
  kicks her. He grabs her by the upper arms and pulls her toward him, moving to 
  bite her neck as she struggles to shove him away. 
  Then the vampire pulls back, still holding her. 
  VAMP: What's that smell? (sniffing) Geez, Slayer, is that you?BUFFY: 
  I've been working!VAMP: Where, in a slaughterhouse?!BUFFY: (pouts) 
  Double Meat Palace.VAMP: Ohhh. 
  He lets go and backs away. 
  VAMP: You know what? Let's just call it a night. (Buffy looking surprised) 
  If it's all the same to you, and you've been eating that stuff, I'm not so 
  sure I wanna bite you.BUFFY: You're dead! You smell like it! (vamp 
  shrugging and nodding) How do you get to say I'm the one who's stinky? 
  (pouting)VAMP: Really, it's, it's cool, I'll just catch you next time. 
  A stake flies into the shot and into his heart. He groans and dusts. 
  Buffy looks triumphant for a moment, then lowers her head to sniff herself. 
  She makes a face, picks up her take-out bag and walks off. 
  Wolf howl. Opening credits. 
  Special Guest Star Marc Blucas. Guest starring Ivana Milicevic. Written and 
  directed by Douglas Petrie. 
  
  
  Act I
  

  Open on exterior of the Summers house, night. Buffy walks up the walkway 
  holding her paper bag, sighing. 
  She pauses right before the stairs. 
  BUFFY: Oh, for pete's sake. Spike? 
  She turns. Spike appears from behind a nearby tree. 
  SPIKE: Ah, it's a fair cop, you caught me, Slayer. However, in all honesty, 
  I think we have to say this one doesn't count. After all, I wasn't exactly 
  hiding. (walks toward her)BUFFY: No, Spike.SPIKE: No? What kind of 
  answer is that, you haven't even heard the question yet.BUFFY: I don't 
  have to. We both know what you're thinking.SPIKE: (grins) And we both know 
  ... that I'm not the only one thinking it. 
  He puts his hand out as if to grab her coat collar, and leans in as if to 
  kiss her. 
  Buffy slaps his hand away. 
  BUFFY: No! Not here.SPIKE: Why not? (pouting)BUFFY: Dawn. (looks 
  toward the house) She's inside waiting for dinner, she's counting on me. I'm 
  not letting her down by letting you in.SPIKE: So it's the fear of getting 
  caught, then, is it?BUFFY: Reason number one on a very long list. (turns 
  to go)SPIKE: Needn't be an obstacle. 
  He takes her hand and pulls her toward the tree. Longer shot of the two of 
  them moving along the side of the building. 
  BUFFY: (sighs) Spike, I mean it. Come on.SPIKE: I hear you're serious. 
  So am I. I want you ... you want me... 
  Cut to a closer shot as Buffy has her back up against the tree and Spike is 
  right in her face. 
  SPIKE: ...I can't go inside, so ... maybe the time is right ... for you to 
  come outside. 
  Buffy sighs, looks at the house, then back at Spike. He slowly leans in to 
  kiss her. 
  Cut to a long shot again. They kiss, Buffy drops the paper bag on the 
  ground, and Spike pulls her around so that the tree obscures them from our 
  view. 
  Cut to inside. Buffy comes into the kitchen, holding the paper bag and 
  putting her other hand to her forehead. She stops and looks surprised. 
  BUFFY: Dawn. 
  We see Dawn by the refrigerator, looking in. She closes it and turns to 
  Buffy. 
  BUFFY: Hey, hi.DAWN: Rough night?BUFFY: The usual. I-I brought you 
  dinner. 
  Buffy hands the paper bag to Dawn across the kitchen island, which is 
  otherwise bare. Buffy sits. 
  DAWN: Oh, great. (opening bag) Oh. 
  Dawn takes out a paper-wrapped sandwich and smiles bravely. 
  BUFFY: I-I know it's not the most original these days, but ... I made it 
  myself. I-I made hundreds, actually, but this is the, the very best 
  one.DAWN: It ... looks kinda squished.BUFFY: Oh, well just, you know, 
  just... (takes the sandwich and slaps it lightly a few times) give it a sec. 
  (Dawn looking disgusted) Yeah, these babies really bounce back. Literally. 
  She gives the sandwich back. Dawn looks at it, then at her. 
  DAWN: Buffy ... it's not like I don't appreciate it, I do. It's just that 
  ... (softly) I can't eat this stuff another night. I'm sorry.BUFFY: (fake 
  cheer) Oh! No, it, it's all good. I get it. (taking the sandwich back) Tell 
  you what, tomorrow night, I'll, uh, I'll bring home the fisherman's nuggets 
  with cheese. 
  Dawn looks less than thrilled. Willow enters. 
  WILLOW: Hey, workin' lady. Rough night?BUFFY: Why does everybody keep 
  asking me that?WILLOW: Uh, no reason, I just ... thought you were busy 
  with the slayage 'cause of that grass stain. (pointing to Buffy's jacket) 
  Buffy tries to look at the back of her jacket, looks upset, takes it off to 
  look at it. 
  DAWN: Some vamp get rough with you?BUFFY: (examining coat, muttering) 
  He's not getting any gentler.WILLOW: He?BUFFY: (quickly) They. Them. 
  You know. (Willow and Dawn looking at her) Vampires in the, in the ... general 
  population sense. (looks at jacket, sighs) Now I'm gonna have to wash 
  this.WILLOW: (smiling) Ready for a bold suggestion? (smiling at Dawn, then 
  at Buffy) Blow it off! Dawnie and I are headed out to the Bronze.DAWN: Um, 
  do I have your permission and wanna come along? (grinning) You like how I 
  slipped in that permission request like that?WILLOW: Very 
  smooth.BUFFY: You guys go.DAWN: Really?WILLOW: Buffy, are you 
  sure? I-it might do you good to get away from the Double Meat lifestyle for a 
  night. See your friends.DAWN: Who'd love to see you.BUFFY: I'm sure. 
  I've seen enough action for one night. (to Dawn) Home by eleven?DAWN: 
  (smiles) On the dot.BUFFY: Have a good time. 
  Dawn smiles, and she and Willow exit. Buffy picks up the still-wrapped 
  sandwich and stares at it. 
  BUFFY: (to herself) Somebody should. 
  She sighs, puts the sandwich back in the bag. 
  Cut to the Bronze. Pan across various people drinking and dancing, 
  bartender serving. Reveal Xander and Anya sitting at the bar eating chips from 
  several bags. A notebook sits in front of them bearing the wedding seating 
  chart. 
  ANYA: See ... this seating chart makes no sense. We have to do it again. 
  (Xander nodding) We can't do it again. You do it.XANDER: The seating 
  chart's fine. Let's get back to the table arrangements. I'm starting to have 
  dreams of gardenia bouquets. (winces) I am so glad my manly coworkers didn't 
  just hear me say that. (eating chips)ANYA: Will you stop wolfing down 
  those chips? One more bag and you'll pop right out of your cummerbund. 
  She grabs the bag of chips away from him, looks in it and sticks her hand 
  in. Xander looks upset. 
  ANYA: You're not even hungry, you're just nervous.XANDER: (smacking the 
  bar-top) Yeah! Wedding, one week! We have friends, family, demons flying in, a 
  to-do list getting no shorter, and do NOT- (grabs the bag back) -take my 
  chips. 
  They stare at each other angrily. Dawn comes over, holding two plastic 
  cups. 
  DAWN: Hey guys! How's the soon-to-be-newlyweds? Nervous?ANYA/XANDER: 
  No!DAWN: (dubious) Okay. I'll just be over here then. 
  Dawn goes over to where Willow is fiddling with pool cues. 
  DAWN: Your Arnold Palmer, milady. (gives Willow a drink)WILLOW: Thanks. 
  So how are Mr. and Mrs. High-Strung?DAWN: I'm betting they 
  explode.WILLOW: You know, when I was little, I used to spend hours 
  imagining what my wedding to Xander would be like. And now I look at them... 
  (shot of Anya and Xander at the bar) I just think... (mocking laugh) 
  "Nee-hee-hee!"DAWN: (giggles) You're awfully chipper tonight.WILLOW: 
  (smiling) Can't hide it.DAWN: Hmm. Big wedding coming up ... lots of date 
  possibilities ... you and Tara are speaking again. You wanna call her? Invite 
  her over?WILLOW: Oh, no. Too soon for so bold a maneuver. (smiles) But if 
  I did call? She wouldn't hang up on me.DAWN: That's progress!WILLOW: 
  (smiling) Hence the happy. 
  Cut to: Buffy's basement. An old boom-box is playing a sad country song. 
  Buffy is wearing an old t-shirt and has her coat on the ironing board, rubbing 
  it with a rag. She pauses, looks at the grass stain, resumes rubbing. 
  Cut to upstairs. Buffy is asleep on the sofa, with the coat covering her. 
  It's daylight. Sound of a noisy truck engine from outside. Buffy slowly wakes 
  up. 
  BUFFY: Garbage! Uhh... 
  She leaps up, pulling the jacket on. 
  Cut to the street. The garbage truck is pulling away. 
  BUFFY: (OS) Wait! Wait up, guys! 
  The truck drives off, revealing Buffy behind it, running down the walk with 
  a garbage bag in each hand. 
  BUFFY: Wait! 
  She stands there panting, watching the truck turn a corner. 
  BUFFY: (whining) Don't you want your garbage? 
  She sighs, pouts, turns and walks back toward the house. 
  Cut to the kitchen. Buffy enters through the back door, holding a pile of 
  mail. She begins looking through it. We see Dawn standing by the island. 
  DAWN: Hey Buffy. Oh, don't forget, today's trash day.BUFFY: (sourly) 
  Thanks. 
  Dawn piles her books into her school bag. Buffy opens a letter. 
  Close shot of the letter. 
  
  Dear Ms. Summers, 
    We are sorry to reject your application for re-admittance to UCSD.Our 
    guidelines dictate that re-admission forms must be processed on or before 
    January 15, 2002. 
    If you have any questions, please feel free to call my office during 
    regular business hours, Monday through Friday. 
    