

   Entropy - Buffy Episode Transcript
   
      




Buffy Episode #118: "Entropy" Transcript

Written by Drew Z. Greenberg
Directed By James A. Contner
Original Air Date: April 30th, 2002



Transcribed by Joan the English Chick (pisces@englishchick.com).
Transcriber's Notes:
I do not own the characters or situations of BTVS, and I claim no credit for the content of this episode. I have merely transcribed what appeared on my screen, with help from the closed captions.
I prefer that you link to this transcript on the Psyche site rather than post it on your site, but you can post it on your site if you want, as long as you keep my name and email address on it. Please also keep my disclaimers intact.
You can use my transcripts in your fanfiction stories; you don't have to ask my permission. (However, if you use large portions of episode dialogue in your fanfic, I recommend you give credit to the person who wrote the episode.)
I apologize in advance for my lame transcription of the fight scenes. I don't know the names of different punches and kicks. Use your imagination.





GILES VOICEOVER: Previously...Buffy and Spike in the 
  crypt.BUFFY: I'm using you.SPIKE: Oh, this is worse then, is it? This 
  is you telling me...BUFFY: It's over.The Geek Trio in their 
  lair.JONATHAN: Where've you guys been?ANDREW: Checking out Buffy on 
  the van's remote surveillance.Buffy and Willow in the Summers 
  house.BUFFY: I thought you were gonna go see Tara.Tara and another 
  girl kissing each other in the school hallway.WILLOW VOICEOVER: She's ... 
  seeing someone else. They're probably just friends.Anya at the wedding 
  that wasn't.ANYA: Xander's gone? Xander's missing?Xander at the 
  house.XANDER: Is she here?WILLOW: She left a couple days 
  ago.BUFFY: She was ... kinda broken.XANDER: I love her, and, god, I 
  miss her so much.Dawn, Buffy, and Anya in Dawn's room.DAWN: 
  No!Anya opening a box. Dawn's stolen jewelry falling out.ANYA: How 
  could you do this?Buffy beating up Xander in the kitchen in "Normal 
  Again."Buffy holding Dawn down.DAWN: Buffy, stop! No!Dawn, Willow, 
  and Xander tied up in the basement in "Normal Again."BUFFY: I'm so 
  sorry.XANDER: We're okay, it's all okay. 
  
  
  Teaser
  

  Episode opens on two pairs of feet running through the graveyard, night. 
  Sound of motors running. 
  Cut out and we see it's two vampires running, looking nervously behind 
  them. Cut out farther and we see three all-terrain vehicles chasing the 
  vampires. 
  Cut closer to reveal the Geek Trio on the ATVs, holding long stakes like 
  jousting spears. Warren gives a yell or laugh of excitement as the chase 
  continues. 
  WARREN: Ha ha!ANDREW: They're getting to the gate!WARREN: I see it, 
  I see it! 
  The vampires continue fleeing. Now we see one of them has something in his 
  hand: a flat round metallic disk three or four inches in diameter. The Geeks 
  continue pursuing. 
  One vampire grabs a branch from a passing tree. The branch breaks off and 
  he throws it at the ATVs. 
  The branch hits Andrew in the face and he loses control of his vehicle. He 
  falls off as Jonathan roars up behind him. 
  Jonathan and Warren swerve to avoid hitting Andrew. Jonathan side-swipes a 
  gravestone, shattering it. He ends up riding head-on toward Warren. They both 
  stop just in time but go tumbling off their vehicles and onto the ground. 
  Andrew comes limping over. 
  ANDREW: We're gonna lose 'em. 
  We see the vampires still running. They have almost reached the wide gate 
  that marks the exit to the cemetery. 
  Jonathan and Warren get to their feet. 
  JONATHAN: We need that disk. 
  The vampires run through the gate and onto the street, only to be attacked 
  by Buffy. She hits the first vamp and grabs the second, but he twists out of 
  her grip. 
  The disk goes clattering across the pavement. 
  The second vamp kicks at Buffy but she blocks, hits him and throws him 
  against the gate. He falls to the ground and Buffy turns to the other vamp. 
  The Nerd Herd stands watching. 
  WARREN: Wait. 
  The fight continues, moves around the gate and out of the Geeks' view. 
  Warren moves forward. 
  The second vamp gets to his feet and prepares to rejoin the fight. But 
  suddenly he rises up off the ground. 
  Reveal Spike sitting atop the stone pillar of the gate, holding the vampire 
  by the back of his shirt, calmly watching Buffy. The vamp struggles 
  ineffectively. 
  The Geeks walk closer, carefully. 
  Buffy gets the first vamp in a strangle-hold, tries to stake him but he 
  holds her arm off. Spike continues watching and holding the second vamp in the 
  air. 
  The first vamp gets loose from Buffy's hold and hits her. 
  Warren crawls across the ground toward the disk. He gets to it, grabs it. 
  Andrew and Jonathan start to run off, as Warren follows. Buffy never saw them. 

  The first vamp throws Buffy to the ground and reaches for her throat. 
  SPIKE: How you doin'?BUFFY: (holding the vamp off) Oh, fine. You know, 
  same old same old.SPIKE: Here, I could take care of this guy if you 
  want.BUFFY: Whatever. 
  Buffy kicks the first vamp off and flips to her feet. 
  BUFFY: Your call.SPIKE: I mean, sure he don't look like much...VAMP 
  2: Hey!SPIKE: ...but I'd wager he could give you a bit o' nasty. (Buffy 
  kicking Vamp 1) Save you the staking. (Buffy throwing Vamp 1 to the ground) 
  All you gotta do is-BUFFY: I am not telling my friends about us.SPIKE: 
  Right, I'll just be dropping him down to you then.BUFFY: (still struggling 
  with Vamp 1) You wanna tell them so badly? Go ahead. 
  She finally manages to get a hand free and stakes the first vamp. Buffy 
  stands up and walks over to the gate, looks up at Spike and the still dangling 
  Vamp 2. 
  BUFFY: You know why? I tried to kill my friends, my sister, last week ... 
  and guess how much they hate me. Zero. Zero much. (shrugs) So I'm thinking, 
  sleeping with you? (Spike looking annoyed) They'll deal. 
  She turns to go. Spike lets Vamp 2 go. He falls to the ground and rushes at 
  Buffy from behind. 
  SPIKE: In that case, why won't you sleep with me again? 
  Vamp 2 pauses, looks back at Spike in confusion. 
  VAMP 2: Huh? 
  Buffy turns back, stakes the vamp and glares at Spike. Turns again and 
  resumes walking. 
  BUFFY: (quietly as she walks away) Because I don't love you. 
  Spike looks down, pouts. 
  SPIKE: (to himself) Like hell. 
  Cut to Xander's apartment. It's dimly lit and very red. Sad music plays -- 
  "Sao Paulo Rain" by Tom McRae. 
  And midnight graffiti appears on your door 
  Pan across to reveal Xander sitting on the floor holding a bottle of beer. 
  He takes a sip, stares blankly. 
  So we all can sleep safe in our homes 
  Xander takes another sip of beer, continues staring blankly. 
  And the storms in the distance hold no rain... 
  Xander picks up a remote control and pushes a button. The music stops. He 
  looks around in the silence. Gets up. 
  He walks over to a chair, picks up a jacket and puts it on as he leaves the 
  apartment. 
  Cut to the front of the building. Xander exits, goes down the walkway 
  toward the street. 
  Pan over to some bushes. We see Anya standing behind them, watching him go. 

  Wolf howl. Opening credits. 
  Guest starring Danny Strong, Adam Busch, Tom Lenk, Kali Rocha, and Amber 
  Benson as Tara. Written by Drew Z. Greenberg, directed by James A. Contner. 
  
  
  Act I
  

  Exterior college campus, day. Students walking around, talking, etc. 
  Cut to inside hallway. Willow stands beside a classroom door holding books. 
  Students are walking out of the classroom. 
  Tara exits the classroom, also holding books. She doesn't see Willow, 
  begins walking. Willow rushes to intercept her, smiling. Willow grabs Tara's 
  shoulder. 
  TARA: Hey!WILLOW: Hey. Look at you. All coming out of class and 
  everything. (they continue walking)TARA: (smiling) I do that sometimes. 
  Usually at the end part of the class.WILLOW: Right. (nervous 
  laugh)TARA: So how's your, you know, after the whole basement deal? 
  (gesturing at her neck)WILLOW: (puts hand to her neck) It's between a 
  hitch and a kink, with a side of a twinge. It's okay. (smiling)TARA: And 
  Buffy's okay too? Enjoying the refreshing sanity and so forth? (stops 
  walking)WILLOW: (loud fake laugh) Ha, yeah! Refreshing san - that's funny. 
  (more seriously) She's okay. A little ... freaked. I'm glad she didn't hurt 
  you.TARA: You too. 
  Pause. They resume walking. 
  TARA: So, this is becoming kind of a regular thing, you and me after 
  class.WILLOW: (nervous) Uh, I didn't...TARA: Only this time you stuck 
  around.WILLOW: Uh, um ... various sounds of hesitation...TARA: She was 
  just a friend.WILLOW: (relieved, nervous laugh) Friends are nice!TARA: 
  (smiles) You rushed off before I could, you know, explain.WILLOW: Well, 
  officially, I have to say I have no idea what you're talking about.TARA: 
  Unofficially? 
  Tara stop walking, gives a teasing look. Willow smiles hugely, then calms 
  down but still looks happy. 
  WILLOW: We should have some coffee some time. (nervously) Uh, maybe some 
  day ... this week after class?TARA: (small smile) I'm free 
  tomorrow.WILLOW: Uh, you could, you could bring your friend.TARA: 
  (surprised) I wasn't gonna - I-I mean, if you have a friend-WILLOW: No! 
  (quickly) I'm, oh, I-I'm friendless.TARA: Yeah, yeah, no friends. 
  (quickly) I-I mean, I have friends-WILLOW: Right, many dear friends, yeah. 

  They both laugh and fidget nervously. 
  TARA: (sighing, smiling) Coffee.WILLOW: With us. Who are ... just 
  friends. (both nodding at each other) 
  Cut to: exterior street mall, day. Lots of people walking around, shopping 
  etc. 
  BUFFY: (OS) Okay, how about this store? 
  Long shot of Buffy and Dawn walking along. Buffy points at a store window. 
  DAWN: Ah. Three pairs of earrings, a coin purse and a toothbrush.BUFFY: 
  (dubious) You stole a toothbrush.DAWN: (defensive) A mother-of-pearl 
  handle. Very fancy.BUFFY: Yeah, but you stole a toothbrush. As far as 
  rebellious teenagers go, you're kinda square.DAWN: (smiling) Dental 
  hygiene is important.BUFFY: Guess this was kind of a lame sisters' day 
  out, huh? I make up for trying to kill you by taking you to places you can't 
  go in.DAWN: No, it's my bad. I'm the one that got caught taking 
  stuff.BUFFY: (noticing something offscreen, pointing) Hey, how about the 
  pet store? You didn't take anything from there, did you?DAWN: A pocketful 
  of goldfish. It didn't work out. 
  Beat. They continue walking as Buffy stares at Dawn. 
  DAWN: (laughing) No!BUFFY: (smiling) Okay, good. We can go, and we can 
  look at all the puppies.DAWN: (grimacing) Ehh. It's so awful! There's 
  puppy mills, and keeping them in cages, and, and people poking at them all 
  day.BUFFY: Yeah, but puppies, cute! Come on, you used to love the pet 
  store.DAWN: Yes, when I was in my fives and sixes. (sees Buffy looking 
  disappointed) Uh, come on, we'll go look. (looking around) Besides, I don't 
  think there's another store here where I can ... show my face.BUFFY: It'll 
  pass. You've returned all the stuff that you still had, and we're paying for 
  the rest.DAWN: I'm paying for the rest.BUFFY: We'll figure it out. 
  They look at each other. 
  Cut to: close-up of the disk from earlier. We see that it has symbols drawn 
  in concentric rings on its surface. It sits on a table leaning against a small 
  glass jar filled with yellow liquid. 
  JONATHAN: (OS) Get back. 
  Reveal Jonathan sitting by the table holding a glass mortar and pestle. The 
  table also holds an array of test tubes, and the requisite arrangement of 
  curly tubes and jars filled with liquids of various colors. Warren stands by 
  Jonathan's shoulder. 
  JONATHAN: You don't want to make me rush this. (mixing stuff in the 
  mortar)WARREN: I'm not impressed, padawan. When do we hit 
  pay-dirt?JONATHAN: If something goes wrong, it's gonna surge... (Warren 
  pacing to the other side) ...and we'll be deader than an 
  ex-girlfriend.WARREN: (pauses, whirls to stare at Jonathan) What did you 
  say?JONATHAN: (annoyed) Just let me work!WARREN: (playing it cool) All 
  right. All right, you do what you need to do. You get us to the goods, and 
  then watch out! (smiles) It'll gonna be like ... it'll be like the whole world 
  just spread open and gave it up for you, man. 
  Jonathan doesn't look thrilled by that. He looks up at Warren. 
  JONATHAN: (quietly) And then we're done, right? We each take our share and 
  we call it a day.WARREN: You that ready to get rid of us? Huh? 
  In background Andrew appears, pretends to be doing something but really is 
  listening in. 
  WARREN: Don't worry. We pull this off, you can go buy any tropical island 
  you want. (Jonathan still looking grim) Aw, cheer up, Short Round. You're 
  about to get us everything we ever wanted. 
  Jonathan still looks displeased but he nods and turns back to the chemistry 
  set. Warren turns away, goes over to Andrew. 
  WARREN: (quietly) He's almost done. (shot of Jonathan working)ANDREW: I 
  sorta feel ... kinda sorry for him.WARREN: (glares at him) That's a 
  weakness.ANDREW: (uncertain) Um ... okay.WARREN: Look at him. (shot of 
  Jonathan working, frowning)ANDREW: He's got that same look on his face, 
  the one he had that time I highlighted in his Babylon 5 novels. 
  Andrew smiles at the memory, suddenly realizes something. 
  ANDREW: Right before he told his mother on me! Warren! I don't think we can 
  trust him.WARREN: We don't have to. Not for that much longer.ANDREW: 
  Is it gonna be that soon?WARREN: The milk. In the fridge. How long 'til it 
  expires?ANDREW: Well, we got it on Friday, and I remember noticing there 
  wasn't a full two weeks on it, (Warren rolling his eyes) but we did get it in 
  the fridge pretty quick, unless I'm thinking of the two-percent 
  milk...WARREN: (annoyed) Forget it. It was a thing. (explaining) It's 
  gonna be soon.ANDREW: (pretending to get it) Oh. Wow. 
  They nod at each other. 
  Cut to Xander's apartment, night. Xander enters from the hallway, closes 
  the door behind him, turns around, sees something and stops. 
  Reveal Anya sitting at the table. She stands up quickly. 
  XANDER: Oh my god. 
  He walks quickly toward her. She backs away, twisting her hands nervously. 
  XANDER: How are you?ANYA: Ducky. You?XANDER: (holding out a hand 
  toward her) Ahn. (sighs) Please. Let me, uh, explain. 
  Anya watches him, still fidgeting with her hands and looking nervous. 
  XANDER: I know there's nothing that I can say or do to make up for what I 
  did. I can't. Sometimes when I wake up in the morning, I'm like, 'oh god, is 
  this my life? Was that me?'ANYA: (softly) Me too.XANDER: But you gotta 
  believe me, please. I want to make up for it. I want to take away the hurt. 
  (small sigh) I love you so much. 
  Anya looks touched, seems to be softening up a bit. 
  XANDER: (embarrassed smile) I, I may have practiced that a couple times in 
  front of the mirror.ANYA: I just ... don't understand what 
  happened.XANDER: I do. I'm an idiot. All I had to do was say something 
  earlier. (Anya looks surprised) I could have spared you from that ... that 
  nightmare. 
  Through this speech Anya begins to frown and look hurt again. She backs 
  away a few steps and folds her arms. 
  ANYA: Said something about what?XANDER: (makes "uh-oh" face) No, no! I 
  mean, you know, if I were, like, more ... self-aware. Because, with the whole 
  idiot thing.ANYA: (arms still folded, angrily) If you had been more 
  self-aware, you would have what? (Xander looking alarmed) Been able to stop 
  the wedding?XANDER: No no, it's not like that, that's not what... (pauses, 
  frustrated sigh) Okay, see, I didn't practice this part.ANYA: (firmly) Do 
  you still want to get married? 
  Close on Xander's face. He hesitates, looks unsure. Anya looks upset. 
  ANYA: (very quietly) Oh.XANDER: Ahn, it's a very complicated 
  question.ANYA: (getting teary) No, actually, it's really not. It's kind of 
  an either-or deal. Do you want to get married?XANDER: Someday, yes, very 
  much. When we're ready. (Anya looking very hurt) I don't want you to take this 
  as a bad thing. It's good. (Anya looking resigned, annoyed) I love you, I love 
  you so much, I'm just trying to be honest with you.ANYA: (angry) Yes, 
  honesty *now*. Congratulations, Xander, on being honest now. I wonder what the 
  medal will say.XANDER: (confused) Okay, clearly I'm not handling this 
  well.ANYA: (yelling) Well, duh! 
  She turns away, walks a few steps away. Xander walks a few steps toward 
  her. Shot of both with Anya in foreground, her back to Xander, arms crossed 
  and looking angry; Xander in background. 
  XANDER: All I want is for us to be together. I love you, I ... I wish we 
  could just go back to the way things were before. 
  Anya's face slowly morphs into her demon face. 
  ANYA: (demon voice) And I wish you were never born! 
  Blackout. 
  
  
  Act II
  

  Exterior shot of Xander's apartment building, night.Cut to inside. 
  Still the same scene. Anya stands with her back to Xander, her demon face on, 
  arms folded. 
  XANDER: I know this is all coming out wrong. 
  Anya morphs back into human face, frowning in confusion. She turns around 
  to look at Xander. 
  ANYA: (angry) I wish you felt the pain of a thousand searing pokers boiling 
  your heart in its own juices!XANDER: I know, honey. I totally deserve 
  that.ANYA: (confused) I ... I wish you had tentacles where your beady eyes 
  should be! I wish your intestines were tied in knots and ripped apart inside 
  your lousy gut!XANDER: (sadly) They are.ANYA: (hopeful) Really? 
  (Xander nods) Right now? Does it hurt?XANDER: God, yes. It hurts so bad 
  it's killing me. Anya ... I love you, I want to make this work.ANYA: 
  (annoyed) Those are metaphor intestines! You're not in any real pain! What's 
  wrong with me?XANDER: No, honey, it's not you, it's me. That-ANYA: 
  (frustrated) Ohh!! 
  She shoves past him and goes storming toward the door. 
  XANDER: Ahn! Ahn! Wait. Please. 
  Anya yanks the door open and exits. Xander goes to the door and stands in 
  the doorway, looking down the hall at her. 
  XANDER: Ahn! 
  HALFREK VOICEOVER: So there was no child support in, like, eleven years... 
  Cut to: a restaurant, day. Halfrek and Anya sit at a table. Halfrek holds a 
  coffee cup. Anya is fiddling with a yellow flower, not really listening to 
  Halfrek. 
  HALFREK: ...not a single check, so now, every time he picks up a piece of 
  paper that isn't a check for the child? Paper cut. 
  Halfrek laughs cheerfully. Anya is oblivious. 
  HALFREK: Oh, you know how I hate to toot my own horn ... but now his hands 
  are just covered in all these tiny little bandages. (smiling) Like a quilt. 
  (chuckles) You know, made of bandages. 
  Halfrek looks over at Anya, finally notices that she isn't paying 
  attention. Anya looks up. 
  ANYA: Hmm?HALFREK: Okay, do they not teach listening skills in Human 
  World? (puts down coffee cup)ANYA: I'm sorry. I know. (puts the flower 
  back into its vase on the table) I'm just distracted.HALFREK: What, about 
  this thing with Xander? Don't worry, you'll figure out a way to-ANYA: No, 
  that's just it, I've tried everything. I tried every curse I knew, nothing's 
  worked.HALFREK: Wait. Did you try to curse him yourself?ANYA: Yeah, I 
  am the wronged party here, of course I-HALFREK: You can't exact justice 
  against someone on behalf of yourself, silly! (laughs) How long have you been 
  away?ANYA: I haven't been scorned by a man in, like, a thousand years. I 
  never had to make a wish for myself. There has to be some way around 
  that.HALFREK: Well ... (thinks) You could try getting someone to make the 
  wish for you. I suppose. 
  Anya stares at her, contemplating this. A very small smile appears on her 
  face. 
  Cut to: exterior Summers house, day.Cut to the kitchen. Dawn walks in 
  and stares at the kitchen island. 
  DAWN: Uh ... did we open a chain? 
  Close shot on the island set with two place settings, bowls of fruit, four 
  bottles of syrup. 
  Reveal Buffy standing by the stove holding a spatula and frying pan. 
  Several cereal boxes lined up on the counter. 
  DAWN: Are we the International House of something?BUFFY: Nope. Got up 
  early, and it felt like a breakfast kind of morning. (puts pancakes from the 
  pan onto a plate) Okay, what kind of syrup do you want on your 
  pancakes?DAWN: (amazed) Syrups have kinds?BUFFY: Oh! Also, you know, I 
  was thinking, (turns away to put the pan in the sink) after the mall 
  yesterday, maybe we, we shouldn't go out tonight, you know, maybe we could 
  stay in and, uh, (taking toast from the toaster) ow ... um, you know, get a 
  pizza, or, uh, rent a movie?DAWN: Um...BUFFY: (putting plateful of 
  toast on the island) Also, I didn't know if, you know, if you had plans this 
  weekend, (turns to grab the cereal boxes) but I thought, maybe we 
  could...DAWN: Hey, Buffy? 
  Buffy pauses, looking at Dawn, with a large armful of cereal boxes. 
  DAWN: (quietly) I'm gonna be okay with the basement thing. Really. You 
  weren't you.BUFFY: (quietly) This isn't guilt. I want us to spend 
  time.DAWN: Okay. Good. I love spending time-BUFFY: (realizing) But I'm 
  cramping your teenage style.DAWN: No-BUFFY: Yes, I am. (alarmed) I'm 
  the embarrassing mom who tries too hard. When did this happen?DAWN: 
  (smiling) No, you're not, it's not that, it's just ... what if, instead of you 
  hanging out with me? Maybe I could hang out with you. 
  Buffy stares blankly, not getting it. 
  DAWN: Why don't I come patrolling with you tonight?BUFFY: Oh. And then? 
  Maybe we can invite over some strangers and ask them to feed you 
  candy.DAWN: Well, you guys went out patrolling every night when you were 
  my age.BUFFY: True ... but technically, you're one-and-a-half. 
  Dawn gives her patented adolescent exasperated look. 
  BUFFY: See, I thought a little levity might ... but okay, also no.DAWN: 
  I just ... I just think I could help.BUFFY: I'm sure you could. But it's a 
  little more dangerous than I had in mind.DAWN: But-BUFFY: Dawn, I work 
  very hard to keep you away from that stuff. Okay, I don't want you around 
  dangerous things that can kill you.DAWN: Which would be a perfectly 
  reasonable argument, if my sister was chosen to protect the world from tax 
  audits? But, see, my sister is you, and ... dangerous things that want to kill 
  me seem to find me.BUFFY: But you don't need to go looking for them. 
  Beat. Dawn gives Buffy a pleading look. 
  BUFFY: Now eat up. You're gonna be late for school. 
  Buffy turns back to the stove. Dawn sighs quietly and sits down. 
  Cut to: the Espresso Pump, day. 
  TARA: (OS) Okay, wait, it was under her wig? 
  Pan across various customers to reveal Tara and Willow sitting at a table 
  with cups of coffee. Both smiling as Willow tells the story of the old lady in 
  episode "Double Meat Palace." 
  WILLOW: Well, it was this thing, it just came out from inside her 
  head.TARA: That's disgusting! What did it look like?WILLOW: Well, 
  let's put it this way, if I wasn't gay before...TARA: (laughing) God, and 
  this was *after* the invisible ray?WILLOW: Yep.TARA: Okay, I'm gone 
  for a couple of months-WILLOW: Oh, did I tell you about the demon 
  eggs?TARA: See, now, now I know you're just trying to make me 
  jealous.WILLOW: (grinning) So, what, no rollicking adventures in the 
  dorms?TARA: (quieter) Mm, it's not the same. It's not like living with a 
  house full of family, or sharing a room with someone you...WILLOW: ...are 
  friends with? 
  As they gaze at each other, Anya walks up. 
  ANYA: Hi.WILLOW: Oh my god. You're back. (hugs Anya)TARA: We've 
  been so worried.ANYA: Yeah, sorry. I needed to, you know ... I couldn't 
  stay here. Not after ... everything that happened.TARA: No, no no, we, we 
  totally understand.WILLOW: But, you're back now, right?ANYA: It's 
  complicated. (sits) You know, and there's a lot to deal with.WILLOW: Well, 
  if there's anything we can do, just let us-ANYA: Actually ... um ... there 
  is an eensy something I could use a little help with. You're lesbians, so the 
  hating of men will come in handy. 
  Willow and Tara look at each other in puzzlement. 
  ANYA: (cheerfully) Let's talk about Xander. 
  Cut to: Magic shop, day. Close on Dawn.DAWN: He feels awful. 
  Reveal Anya facing Dawn. 
  ANYA: You think it's anywhere close to what I feel?DAWN: No, 
  but-ANYA: What if it were you, Dawn? What if ... all you dreamed about was 
  that magical day? (Dawn looking chastised) The day when the one person you 
  loved with all your soul would promise to cherish and protect your heart for 
  the rest of his life, but instead he shatters it into a million jagged pieces? 

  Cut back to the coffee shop.TARA: Well, it's, it's not really so much 
  about hating the men.WILLOW: We're more centered around the ... (smirking) 
  girl on girl action. (Tara grinning)ANYA: And men really like to watch 
  that kind of stuff, don't they? Men like Xander. 
  Cut to: exterior Summers house, day. Anya and Buffy stand on the front 
  porch, leaning against the two pillars on either side of the door, facing each 
  other.BUFFY: I don't think he could feel any worse.ANYA: Let's test 
  that theory.BUFFY: Anya, Xander's my friend. I know what he did was wrong, 
  and ... if it had happened to me, I'd-ANYA: (hopefully) Wish his penis 
  would explode? 
  Cut back to the magic shop.DAWN: I never use that word 
  anymore.ANYA: Coagulate?DAWN: W-i-s-h.ANYA: Oh, wish! As in 'I 
  wish Xander-'DAWN: Right! That word. There's vengeance demons out there 
  that are still active, remember? Any 'I wish' could totally end in horrible 
  grossness.ANYA: Gimme a for-instance? 
  Cut to the Summers porch.BUFFY: I don't really think I should.ANYA: 
  Did I mention the whole 'left at the altar' thing? Didn't leave that out, did 
  I?BUFFY: No. (shakes head) Look, I - I know what he did was wrong. God, if 
  it happened to me, I ... I-I, it must have been torture.ANYA: (excited) 
  Okay! Let's talk about torture! 
  Cut to the magic shop. Dawn looks very dubious.ANYA: So. Tell me more 
  about wishing Xander's brains and guts would go blooey.DAWN: I didn't say 
  that.ANYA: Yes you did.DAWN: No I didn't.ANYA: I heard 
  you.DAWN: I swear, I didn't say that.ANYA: Didn't say what?DAWN: 
  Um ... I just saw you were back and wanted to talk to you about working off my 
  debt. (nervous chuckle) You know, my whole sticky-fingers, grabby-hands 
  thing?ANYA: Oh, right, the mad thieving! Good, yes, there 's much to do. 
  (mock stern) I'm gonna put you to work, missy! 
  Anya gives a fake laugh. Dawn continues to look dubiously at her. 
  ANYA: So, back to Xander's brains and guts... 
  Cut to the Summers porch. Now Anya and Buffy are sitting on the 
  step.ANYA: Squish squish squish! Guys have been running roughshod over you 
  for years. (Buffy nodding, pouting, reluctantly agreeing) Torturing that perky 
  little ticker. Aren't you sick of it? Don't you wish guys like that-BUFFY: 
  Whoa. Guys? There have only been four - three! Three! Three guys. That's 
  barely plural.ANYA: And didn't each of them rip your heart out? Don't men 
  like that, as to pick an example, Xander, deserve to be punished? 
  Cut to the coffee shop.WILLOW: Well, Xander is a guy, so ... (Tara 
  looking confused) it's kinda not the surprise that he likes to watch ... girls 
  ... Why are we talking about this?ANYA: (annoyed) We're comforting 
  me!TARA: Well, I-I guess it's ... natural for guys to be interested 
  in-ANYA: God! What kind of lesbians are you?! If you love men so much, go 
  love men! 
  Anya jumps up and grabs her to-go coffee cup, storms off. 
  Cut to the Summers porch. Anya has stood up there too and started to storm 
  off. 
  BUFFY: Anya, I know you're hurting, but-ANYA: What? Xander doesn't 
  deserve to suffer for what he did 'cause he's your friend, and I'm not, right? 
  I get it.BUFFY: No. That's not what I'm saying at all. What he did was 
  wrong. He knows that.ANYA: (upset) It just, it hurts. He hurt me so 
  much.BUFFY: (gets up) He really did. (puts hand on Anya's arm) Look, I-I 
  wish that...XANDER: (OS) Anya? 
  Xander walks up. Buffy and Anya look at him. 
  ANYA: (angry) Well, congratulations. They all still love you. Even after 
  what you did to me. 
  She starts to walk off. Xander starts to follow, but Buffy grabs 
  him.XANDER: Anya, wait...BUFFY: Okay. Not, not crazy about that 
  idea.XANDER: What are you doing? I have to go after her.BUFFY: Or, in 
  the land of the sane, you could give her some space, let her cool 
  down.XANDER: (frustrated) That's not Proactive Guy. (pacing) That's 
  Sit-Around-And ... Watch-The-Rest-of-Your-Life-To-Turn-To-Crap Guy. 
  As Xander paces, we get a shot of the tree on the front lawn. There are a 
  few straggly plants around the tree's base, and a little ceramic garden gnome 
  nestled among the plants. 
  BUFFY: True, uh, but at least Crap Guy gets to keep all of his 
  appendages.XANDER: And I'm supposed to what? Walk away? (Buffy looking 
  sympathetic) Shouldn't be too hard. It's what I'm good at, right? 
  Xander kicks out in frustration, smashing the garden gnome. 
  BUFFY: Okay, see, that's exactly why a heart-to-heart is probably not your 
  best course of action right now. (Xander still pacing) When you're both angry 
  and upset and ... what the hell is that creepy little thing doing in my yard? 
  Buffy walks forward, looking down at the bits of gnome. Xander looks at 
  them too. 
  BUFFY: Did Willow put that there when I was dead? 'Cause if I had known, I 
  would have crawled out of the grave sooner to-XANDER: Buffy. 
  They both kneel beside the gnome's head. We can clearly see a tiny camera 
  inside it. Xander picks it up. 
  BUFFY: Oh my god.XANDER: Looks like someone's been keeping an eye on 
  all your ins and outs.BUFFY: What the who?XANDER: Well, now, let's 
  see. Who's obsessed with Buffy? Who likes to hang out in her yard and keep an 
  eye on her? Who's in love with you and not getting any? 
  Buffy looks grim. 
  Cut to: close-up of a hand holding the camera. 
  SPIKE: What's this? 
  We see that we're in Spike's crypt. Spike is holding the camera up to look 
  at it as Buffy stands confronting him. 
  BUFFY: It's a camera.SPIKE: Yeah, I got that part. Why am I holding 
  it?BUFFY: Someone was using it to spy on me. On my house. (Spike frowning) 
  Xander thinks it's you.SPIKE: Oh, the great Xander thinks so! Shudder 
  gasp! It must be true!BUFFY: Spike-SPIKE: That ponce has always had it 
  for me. Every chance he gets, he sticks it- 
  He pauses, looking at Buffy. 
  SPIKE: (outraged) You believe him, don't you? You think I was spying on 
  you. 
  Buffy doesn't answer. 
  SPIKE: You think I could do that?BUFFY: Because you don't lie or cheat 
  or steal or manipulate... 
  Spike gives her back the camera. 
  SPIKE: (quietly) I don't hurt you. 
  He walks a few steps away. 
  BUFFY: I know.SPIKE: No, you don't. I've tried to make it clear to you, 
  but you won't see it. (pauses) Something happened to me. The way I feel ... 
  about you ... it's different. And no matter how hard you try to convince 
  yourself it isn't, it's real.BUFFY: I think it is. 
  Beat. He looks at her. 
  BUFFY: For you. 
  She turns to walk away. Spike looks hurt. 
  Buffy pauses by the door, turns back. 
  BUFFY: I know that's not what you want to hear. I'm sorry. I really am. 
  But, Spike, you have to move on. You have to get over-SPIKE: (softly) Get 
  out. 
  Buffy looks grim, turns and leaves. 
  Cut to: magic shop. Anya stands behind the counter talking to Halfrek, who 
  is on the other side of the counter sitting on a stool. 
  ANYA: No! They're all, 'oh, poor Xander! It took so much out of him, all 
  that running away he did.' I just don't understand what's wrong with these 
  people.HALFREK: Did you really think they were the ones who would help 
  you?ANYA: Well, but-HALFREK: Do you want retribution, 
  Anyanka?ANYA: I want Xander good and cursed.HALFREK: Then you know 
  what you have to do.ANYA: Get a wish from someone who doesn't freaking 
  love him.HALFREK: Exactly.ANYA: Yeah, but my social circle is a little 
  limited here. What am I supposed to do, just stumble upon someone who doesn't 
  give a fig's ass if Xander gets hurt? 
  The bell over the magic shop door jingles as Spike enters. He slams the 
  door shut and strides toward Anya. 
  SPIKE: Hey. I need a thing. 
  Zoom in on Anya as she gazes speculatively at him.Blackout. 
  
  
  Act III
  

  Same scene. Halfrek and Anya looking at Spike. 
  ANYA: So. What's your pleasure?SPIKE: Fresh of out of pleasure. That's 
  why I'm here. (sighs) I need something. Numbing spell, maybe.ANYA: (fake 
  smile) Uh huh. Hang on. 
  Halfrek smiles and gets up as Anya walks to the end of the counter. Halfrek 
  moves that way too so they can talk privately. We see that Anya is wearing a 
  red skirt, matching red tank-top, and matching red cardigan. 
  ANYA: (quietly, smiling) Oh my God. Spike *hates* Xander. Maybe I could get 
  him to wish ... dammit, if only he were a woman. (thinks) Got it! If I can 
  somehow get someone to wish that Spike were a woman, then I could go to him - 
  well, he'd be a her by then - then I could go to her -HALFREK: Anyanka. 
  There's an easier way. Now, I know you have this whole female-power, Take Back 
  the Night thing, I think that's cute. But I've been telling you for decades - 
  men need a little vengeance now and then, too.ANYA: Oh. (looks over at 
  Spike)HALFREK: Maybe this is a good chance to try it out. 
  Halfrek gives a cheerful little wave at Spike and heads for the door. 
  HALFREK: Good luck with that. Ta-ta! 
  She leaves. Anya smiles nervously at Spike. 
  SPIKE: Sorry to bust up the little girls' night out.ANYA: (walking 
  toward him) That's okay. I'm ready to do some business.SPIKE: Right then. 
  Got something that'll dull the ache a bit?ANYA: (smiling) Actually, yes. 
  (walks back behind the counter) Um, Giles left a couple of supplies here, and 
  I think ... this might help. 
  She bends over, begins rummaging in the cabinet under the cash register. 
  ANYA: Eases the hurt ... makes the sun shine a little brighter, (Spike 
  frowning) even makes boring people seem more interesting. Ah. Here. 
  She produces a bottle of whiskey and puts it on the counter-top with a 
  clank. 
  Spike grins. 
  Cut to: close shot on a table strewn with various colored wires. The camera 
  from the garden gnome sits there with several wires attached. A hand attaches 
  another wire to it. We see a laptop computer next to the camera. 
  Pan up to reveal Buffy sitting at the other end of the table. The location 
  is the Summers dining room. 
  BUFFY: How's it coming? Can you see who's getting the camera's signal? 
  Reveal Willow sitting in front of the computer. Xander stands beside the 
  table. 
  WILLOW: Should have something once I get tapped into the fiber-optic 
  network. We're gonna use the feedback relay to, uh, get their signal routed 
  into our system.XANDER: Okay, if it's not Spike, and I'm, I'm not saying I 
  believe him ... but if it's not Spike, I think we already know who's behind 
  this.WILLOW: (typing) Makes sense.BUFFY: (grimly) I want. To find. 
  These guys. 
  Cut to: the Geek Trio Lair. Green, blue, yellow liquids bubble in the 
  chemistry set. Jonathan lights a red candle on the table next to the chemistry 
  stuff. Warren and Andrew stand watching. 
  We see that there's an old map spread out on the floor a few feet away. 
  Jonathan holds a short wooden rod with the magic disk attached to the end of 
  it. He positions it in front of the candle and sprinkles some powder over the 
  disk. 
  Close shot on the disk as the powder makes it glow red-hot and give off 
  purple smoke. 
  JONATHAN: Uncover. 
  A beam of purple light shoots from the candle, through the disk, and onto 
  the map. We see that the map is labeled "Map of Sunnydale." The light lands on 
  a single point on the map. 
  JONATHAN: There. That's it. That's where we have to go.WARREN: Well, 
  now that we've found out where we're supposed to go- 
  Suddenly the map bursts into flame where the beam of light is touching it. 
  They all yell. 
  JONATHAN: Yah! 
  Jonathan screams and runs off. 
  Cut to: magic shop, night. Spike is sitting on the stool beside the 
  counter, Anya still standing behind the counter. They both have shot glasses 
  and are in the process of drinking the shots. 
  SPIKE: (angrily) So then, this girl says, "real for *you*."ANYA: Right. 
  But getting back to Xander...SPIKE: (scornful) Xander. Let's not waste any 
  more breath on that wanker.ANYA: But he made a fool of me. And nobody 
  seems to care enough to do anything!SPIKE: I care. What he done to you? 
  I've never stooped that low, and I'm an 'evil, soulless thing.' (bitterly) 
  According to some people.ANYA: But shouldn't he pay? Don't you wish he had 
  to pay in some horrible way?SPIKE: Absolutely. 
  Spike picks up the whiskey bottle and his shot glass, turns to walk over to 
  the round table in the middle of the room. 
  SPIKE: Take him on myself, if it wasn't for my little handicap. (gesturing 
  at his head) 
  Anya comes out from behind the counter, bringing her glass. 
  ANYA: Right. (sits) So ... hypothetically, what do you wish you could do to 
  him? (Spike pouring fresh shots for both of them)SPIKE: You name it, pet. 
  You're the wronged party. Something, uh... (lifts his glass) gruesome, how 
  'bout? 
  Spike drinks. Anya maintains her fake-cheerful smile, drinks also. 
  Cut to: Geek Trio lair. Andrew and Warren are stomping on the fire trying 
  to put it out. Jonathan runs in with a fire extinguisher. 
  Warren grabs a blanket off the sofa and tosses it on the fire trying to 
  smother it. He and Andrew continue stomping. 
  JONATHAN: Hey! That's my blanket!WARREN: Well, makes sense, it was your 
  fire. 
  Behind Warren's head we see a red light-bulb suddenly light up. 
  Cut to: Summers dining room. Willow still working on her laptop. 
  WILLOW: Hey hey, I think I've got something. 
  Buffy and Xander, now both sitting, look over at her. 
  Cut to magic shop. Spike and Anya sit facing each other on the bench next 
  to the round table. Anya gestures wildly with the bottle. She has removed her 
  cardigan sweater and now just wears the red tank top over her red skirt. 
  ANYA: (angrily) Thing about it is, none of this was my idea. (disgusted) I 
  didn't ask to be human. (pouring)SPIKE: Right! And I didn't ask for this 
  bloody chip in my head.ANYA: To tell you the truth ...(puts bottle down) 
  all I wanted was to use him and lose him. I hadn't had a good tumble in a 
  thousand years...SPIKE: (grinning) Me too. The using part. I just wanted 
  to know what I was missing, move on.ANYA: (maudlin) Yeah ... and he was 
  ... all bumpy ... in the right places. And nice to me... 
  She trails off, looking wistful. Spike looks the same way. 
  SPIKE: (softly) She was so raw. I've never felt anything like it.ANYA: 
  Next thing you know ... I'm changing to please him. (a little more upset) I 
  care if he cares!SPIKE: (nodding) Right.ANYA: And I'm off my guard. 
  Happy! I'm singing in the shower and doing my sexy dance?!SPIKE: Exactly. 
  (pauses) I ... have no dance. 
  He looks sternly at Anya as if to make sure she's buying it. She nods, but 
  frowns a little. 
  Cut back to the dining room. Willow continues typing.BUFFY: Talk to me, 
  Will.WILLOW: Technology's pretty sophisticated, lots of booby traps and 
  firewall stuff... (shot of the screen showing a "radar" diagram of concentric 
  circles)BUFFY: But can you get us a location?WILLOW: Well, hey, I'm 
  still me. Just one - whoa.BUFFY: What?WILLOW: There are other cameras. 

  Cut back to Magic Box. Anya is now sitting on the table. 
  ANYA: Screw 'em!SPIKE: To the rafters! 
  They clink their glasses together and drink. 
  ANYA: I did everything for that man. Was it ever enough?SPIKE: Never! 
  (slurred) I was always going above and beyond. I saved the Scoobies how many 
  times? And I can't stand the lot of you.ANYA: Me either! I hate us! 
  Everybody's so *nice.* Nobody says what's on their mind.SPIKE: You do. 
  That's why you're the only one of them I wouldn't bite if I had the 
  chance.ANYA: (giggles, pleased) Really?SPIKE: Absolutely. I have 
  nothing but respect for a woman who is forthright. Drusilla was always 
  straightforward. Didn't have a single buggering clue about what was going on 
  in front of her, (Anya giggling) but she was straight about it. That's a 
  virtue.ANYA: Mm. Xander didn't think so. He thought I was rude.SPIKE: 
  (like 'duh') That's because he's one of them. Uptight. Repressed. (makes 
  "uptight" gesture with one finger)ANYA: (frowning) You think?SPIKE: 
  Please. It's no wonder they couldn't deal with the likes of you and me, luv. 
  We should have been dead hundreds of years ago ... and we're the only ones who 
  are really alive. 
  Anya smiles, gazing down at him. He looks up at her. They both smile at 
  each other. 
  Cut to the dining room. On Willow's laptop screen we can see a tiny image 
  of the exterior of the Double-Meat Palace. 
  WILLOW: Oh my god, the Double Meat Palace? (image changes) The Bronze? My 
  classes on campus... 
  Close on the screen showing an overhead shot of a UC Sunnydale hallway. 
  Then it changes to an image of a deserted construction site. 
  WILLOW: (OS) Xander's site... (Xander looking surprised)BUFFY: 
  What?!XANDER: They've been spying on all these places?WILLOW: I can 
  tell there are more feeds, I, I'm just having a harder time pinpointing 'em. 
  Here, lemme... (typing) 
  Cut back to Magic Box. Anya is sitting on the bench again, closer to Spike 
  than before. The bottle is nearly empty. Spike picks it up with a sigh, pours 
  the last of it into one shot glass. 
  SPIKE: Here. (picks up glass, holds it toward her) Ladies last.ANYA: 
  (gazing sentimentally at him) Thank you.SPIKE: Take it quick or my 
  chivalry'll run out.ANYA: No ... (puts her hand on Spike's) thank you. 
  Spike frowns a little, puts the glass down, moves a little closer to her. 
  ANYA: This is the first time since ... (shrugs) It feels good to be with 
  someone who understands.SPIKE: (softly) Intimately. (sighs)ANYA: This 
  whole time, I've been coming on all ... hell-bent and mad. Wanting his head, 
  you know?SPIKE: Yeah.ANYA: When, really, I ... (tearfully) can't sleep 
  at night, thinking it ... has to be my fault, somehow...SPIKE: (shakes his 
  head) Shh...ANYA: (crying) What if it was just pretending? What if he 
  never wanted me ... the way I wanted him? 
  She snaps out of it a little, shakes her head. 
  ANYA: Ohh. I'm sorry.SPIKE: Now now. 
  Spike gently brushes some hair out of Anya's face, then cups her cheek in 
  his hand. 
  SPIKE: He would have to be more than just the git he is, Anya. He'd have to 
  be deaf, dumb and blind not to want a woman like you.ANYA: (whispers) Then 
  why?SPIKE: (looks away, sadly) The two of them ... they're weak, is all. 
  (pauses) But, I'll tell you what, though. (continues stroking Anya's face) 
  They'll, uh, miss the water now that the well's gone dry. 
  Now Spike has his fingers under Anya's chin and she leans her face into his 
  hand. 
  ANYA: (quietly) Too hot to handle.SPIKE: Too hot... 
  He leans forward, very close. Leans his forehead against hers. 
  ANYA: Um ... just-just one more question.SPIKE: Hmm?ANYA: (very 
  softly) Can I see your sexy dance?SPIKE: (small grin) I'll show you 
  mine... 
  He moves as if to kiss her. 
  ANYA: Wait. Wait. (very soft whisper) What are we doing?SPIKE: Moving 
  on. 
  They kiss passionately. 
  Cut to the dining room.WILLOW: Here, I think there are a couple more 
  transmitters on the network, I just ... ucch, I've almost got a picture on 
  'em. 
  Cut back to Magic Box. Spike and Anya still kissing. Then she pushes back a 
  little.ANYA: You know I'm only doing this 'cause I'm ... I'm lonely and 
  drunk and you ... smell really good.SPIKE: See? Forthright. 
  She grins and nods, and they resume kissing. 
  Cut to: Geek Lair. The red light continues flashing, now accompanied by a 
  loud alarm noise. The geeks look over in alarm. 
  WARREN: Ahh!ANDREW: It tapped into our feed, something's wrong! 
  They all run toward the bank of computers along one wall. 
  Cut back to Magic Box. Kissing continues as Anya climbs onto Spike's lap, 
  straddling him. He pushes his hands up underneath her shirt and pushes the 
  shirt up, revealing a black bra. 
  Cut back to the Lair. The geeks still racing for the computers. Jonathan 
  still holds the fire extinguisher. 
  Cut back to Magic Box. Spike sweeps a pile of stuff (including the empty 
  liquor bottle) off the table with one arm. Then retreats out of shot so all we 
  see is the bare table. Then Spike's hands place Anya on the table, now wearing 
  just her black bra and short red skirt. She lies back on the table panting. 
  Then Spike moves on top of her, between her legs. They resume kissing. 
  Cut to the dining room.WILLOW: I think I've got the Magic Box. 
  She continues typing and looking at the screen. 
  WILLOW: Whoa! 
  She stands up quickly, staring at the screen. 
  Cut to Geek Lair. Close on the multiple keyboards sitting on the table, 
  multiple hands typing frantically.WARREN: (OS) Shut it down, shut it *all* 
  down! 
  Shot of the monitors with various windows flashing chaotically across the 
  screens. 
  ANDREW: I'm trying, I can't find --JONATHAN: (reaching across Warren to 
  Andrew's keyboard) Here, dorkface-ANDREW: I'll get it myself-WARREN: 
  Guys, we have to - oh, holy crap. 
  They all freeze, staring at one monitor. 
  Close on the monitor showing a full-color view of Spike and Anya having sex 
  on the table in the Magic Box. 
  The geeks stare, dropping their hands from the keyboards. 
  JONATHAN: Oh my god.WARREN: What is that, p-porn? 
  We get another shot of the screen as the action heats up, the kissing 
  becomes more frantic. 
  JONATHAN: Oh my god.WARREN: Is that the cam in the Magic 
  Box?JONATHAN: Oh my god.ANDREW: What are they ... ohh.WARREN: Is 
  that-JONATHAN: Spike.ANDREW: (riveted) He is so cool. (glances at the 
  others, self-consciously) And, I mean, the girl is hot too.WARREN: 
  (shaking his head) Dude. 
  They all continue to watch intently. 
  Cut to Magic Box. The kissing and such continues. Pan over to a nearby 
  display case where a human skull is sitting. The camera in its eye is clearly 
  visible. (same skull-cam shown in episode "Life Serial") 
  Cut to dining room. Buffy and Xander, alarmed by Willow's reaction, get up 
  and come over to look at the screen. 
  WILLOW: Wait, Xander, no.XANDER: (looks) Oh, god. 
  Buffy stares at the screen, looks over at Xander, back to the screen. 
  Close on the screen. It's monochrome unlike the Geeks' setup, but the image 
  of Spike and Anya kissing and writhing on the table is quite clear. 
  Shot of Buffy and Xander both watching in horror. Sound of a door opening. 
  Dawn enters through the front door, closes it, sees the others in the 
  dining room and walks that way. 
  DAWN: Hey guys. What's up? 
  Dawn walks over to them as Buffy and Xander are staring at the screen and 
  Willow staring at them. Dawn looks at the screen and gasps. Willow quickly 
  puts her hand over Dawn's eyes. 
  WILLOW: Whoa, whoa, whoa.XANDER: I ... what is she... 
  Willow looks at Xander with concern, then at Buffy.Close on Buffy 
  looking, if anything, even more upset than Xander.Close on the screen as 
  the action continues. 
  WILLOW: Buffy? 
  Dawn and Willow stare at Buffy. 
  BUFFY: That's enough. 
  Buffy storms out. Willow and Dawn exchange a look. 
  Xander walks off in a daze. Willow snaps out of it, a little. 
  WILLOW: (sits) Here, lemme just... (typing) 
  Shot of Buffy's back as she heads toward the kitchen and the back door. 
  WILLOW: You know, we, we aren't even really sure what we're just seeing 
  here, there could be something- 
  Dawn rolls her eyes, follows Buffy. 
  WILLOW: There, got it. 
  Sound of a door closing (back door) and one opening (front door). Willow 
  looks up, realizes she's alone. 
  WILLOW: Xander? 
  She gets up and goes to the foyer, finds the front door standing wide open. 

  Willow goes into the living room, sees something. Zoom in on her face 
  looking upset. 
  Zoom in on the weapons chest that Xander made for Buffy (episode "Older and 
  Far Away"). Its lid is open and the weapons are in disarray. 
  Cut to the street. Xander walks along, walking fast with a grim look on his 
  face. Pan down to reveal the short-handled axe in his hand. 
  Blackout. 
  
  
  Act IV
  

  Open on the Summers back yard, night. Buffy sits in one of the wooden lawn 
  chairs, staring blankly. Dawn stands nearby, her arms folded across her chest. 

  DAWN: So. This is it? This is the stuff you've been protecting me from? You 
  and Spike?BUFFY: And a lot of monsters.DAWN: Uh-huh.BUFFY: But 
  it's over. (Dawn sitting in the other chair) Spike.DAWN: I wish you'd told 
  me.BUFFY: I kinda didn't wanna admit it to myself.DAWN: I get that. 
  Buffy continues staring at the ground. 
  DAWN: I know it must hurt. To feel like you have to hide, to keep secrets 
  from everybody? 
  Buffy looks at Dawn, pensively. 
  Willow bursts out the back door of the house. 
  WILLOW: Buffy. Xander's gone. He took your axe. 
  Cut to Magic Box. Pan across the assorted stuff scattered on the floor. The 
  bench is lying on its side. There's also a tipped-over chair with Anya's 
  sweater hanging on it. 
  Anya, wearing her tank top again, picks up the sweater. In background we 
  see Spike fastening his belt. Anya has her back to him. He looks over at her. 
  Close on Anya looking a little ashamed or embarrassed. Pan to Spike looking 
  the same. 
  Spike finishes with his belt and starts walking toward the door as Anya 
  puts on her sweater, staring blankly into space. Spike pauses by the door and 
  they both turn to face each other from across the room. 
  Anya gives a little nod, and after a moment Spike nods back. He turns and 
  opens the door, walks out. 
  Cut to exterior of the shop. Spike exits and immediately looks shocked at 
  something directly in front of him. He dodges to the right and the 
  short-handled axe plunges into the wall behind where he just was. 
  Shot of Xander struggling to pull the axe free. Spike stares at him in some 
  alarm. 
  Xander gives up on the axe, grabs Spike by the front of his shirt and 
  throws him down on the sidewalk. 
  Shot of Buffy running around a corner farther down the street, running hard 
  toward them. 
  Xander picks Spike up and throws him against a pillar, grabs him and turns 
  him around, punches him in the gut. Spike doubles over. 
  XANDER: Get up. Get up! 
  Spike glares up at him but doesn't move. 
  XANDER: You're just gonna sit there? Do nothing? 
  Spike doesn't answer. Xander grabs him, pulls him to his feet and slams his 
  head against the pillar. 
  XANDER: That the kinda man you are?SPIKE: I'm not gonna fight you. 
  Chip. 
  Xander knees him in the stomach. Spike groans and doubles over again. 
  XANDER: Too bad. 
  Xander pulls a stake from his pocket, just as Anya opens the door and sees 
  them. 
  ANYA: Xander, no! Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! 
  Anya runs over, distracting Xander. She reaches him just as Buffy does, 
  coming up behind him and shoving him aside. 
  Xander pants and glares at Buffy. She pants and glares back. 
  ANYA: Xander, I...XANDER: (panting) Don't even try to deny it. 'Cause I 
  saw it all. The whole beautiful show.ANYA: How...? 
  Xander glares angrily at her. 
  ANYA: It was just, it ... it was just a thing. I ... I felt bad, and he was 
  just ... there.BUFFY: (to Spike) Didn't take long, did it? (Spike looking 
  sourly at her)XANDER: (still yelling at Anya) Oh, oh, oh, okay! You had to 
  do it. Because he was there. Like Mt. Everest. (upset) Like I used to 
  be.ANYA: (angry) And then you weren't. You left *me,* Xander. At the 
  altar. (yelling) I don't owe you anything.XANDER: So you go out and bang 
  the first body you can find? Dead or alive?ANYA: Where do you get off 
  judging me?!XANDER: When this is your solution to our problems. I hurt 
  you, and you hit me back? Very mature.ANYA: No, the mature solution is for 
  you to spend your whole life telling stupid, pointless jokes, so that no one 
  will notice that you are just a scared, insecure little boy!XANDER: 
  (bitterly) I'm not joking now. You let that evil, soulless thing touch you. 
  (pointing at Spike) You wanted me to feel something? (Anya looking chagrined) 
  Congratulations, it worked. 
  Anya stares at him, looks like she might cry again. 
  XANDER: I look at you ... and I feel sick. 'Cause you had sex with that. 
  (points at Spike again) 
  Anya looks down at the ground, hurt.Buffy looks a bit ashamed too. 
  SPIKE: (quietly) It's good enough for Buffy.XANDER: (yells) Shut up and 
  leave her out of... 
  Xander stops as what Spike said sinks in. He and Anya stare at Buffy. Buffy 
  looks all upset. 
  ANYA: Buffy?BUFFY: Xander...XANDER: (shaking his head, full of 
  pain) I don't want to know this. 
  Shot of Xander's stake clattering on the ground. 
  XANDER: I don't want to know any of this. 
  He walks off. Buffy looks very upset, watches him go for a moment, then 
  turns to glare at Spike. 
  Spike just looks back at her, unapologetic. 
  Buffy looks angry but resigned. She turns and follows Xander. 
  Spike and Anya stand side-by-side watching Buffy go. Shot of Buffy's back 
  as she walks away. 
  SPIKE: (OS) Bloody Xander, mucking(?) up everything. 
  Spike looks sullen. 
  SPIKE: You know, I wish-ANYA: Don't. 
  Spike looks at her, a little surprised. Anya grimaces in self-disgust. 
  They move off in opposite directions, Spike down the street, Anya back 
  toward the shop. 
  Cue sad music -- "That Kind of Love" by Alison Krauss. 
  Who would sell their soul for love? 
  Another shot of Buffy still walking away. 
  Or waste one tear on compromise? 
  Anya walks into the store, stares unhappily at the mess. 
  Should be easy enoughTo know a heartache in disguise 
  Anya slowly walks down the three steps into the main room, picks up the 
  bench and rights it. Continues starting to clean the place up. 
  TARA: (OS) Things fall apart. They fall apart so hard. 
  Cut to the Summers house. Willow is lying on the bed with some homework, 
  but looking in surprise at the doorway. She sits up on the edge of the bed. 
  WILLOW: Tara? 
  Reveal Tara in the doorway, leaning against the door frame. 
  TARA: You can't ever ... (sighs) put them back the way they 
  were.WILLOW: Are you okay?TARA: I'm sorry, it's just ... (deep sigh) 
  You know, it takes time. (walking into the room) You can't just ... have 
  coffee and expect-WILLOW: (guilty) I know. 
  Long shot of the two of them -- Willow sitting, Tara standing -- with a 
  considerable distance separating them. 
  TARA: There's just so much to work through. Trust has to be built again, on 
  both sides ... (Willow looking upset) You have to learn if ... if we're even 
  the same people we were, if you can fit in each other's lives. 
  Willow continues looking at Tara, sadly. 
  TARA: It's a long... important process, and ... can we just skip it? 
  Can-can you just be kissing me now? 
  Willow looks hopeful, then delighted as the words sink in. She smiles 
  widely, jumps up. Tara meets her halfway and they kiss passionately. 
  There was not faith enoughStill my heart held onWhen we find 
  that kind of love 
  Blackout.Executive Producers: Joss Whedon and Marti Noxon. 



[an error occurred while processing this directive]





