
   I Only Have Eyes for You - Buffy Episode 31 Transcript
   
    
   


I Only Have Eyes for You





Written by:  Marti Noxon
Directed by:  James Whitmore, Jr.
Transcribed by:  AleXander Thompson

Copyright © 1998 Alexander Thompson

                   ~~~~~~~~~~ Disclaimer ~~~~~~~~~~

I do not own the characters in this story, nor do I own any rights to 
the television show "Buffy the Vampire Slayer". They were created by 
Joss Whedon and belong to him, Mutant Enemy, Sandollar Television, Kuzui 
Enterprises, 20th Century Fox Television and the WB Television Network.

This is not a novelization or a script. It is a straightforward and dry 
transcript of the episode "I Only Have Eyes For You". It also includes 
descriptions of the settings, action scenes and camera movements where I 
felt they were needed.

I made every effort to accurately transcribe the dialogue from this 
episode. If you notice anything that is transcribed incorrectly, please 
let me know and I will post an update.                     rev 98.10.08

This episode was originally broadcast on April 28, 1998.

                    ~~~~~~~~~~ Prologue ~~~~~~~~~~

In every generation there is a Chosen One. She alone will stand against 
the vampires, the demons and the forces of darkness. She is the Slayer.

The Bronze. Splendid is the band tonight. They are on stage performing 
"Charge". The camera pans from the spotlights above the band down past 
the drummer to the lead guitar player.

Lyrics:  The way you love / Have you got a name for it / Cause I don't 
understand it

The camera pans past the singer and into the crowd. Cordelia and Xander 
are dancing close with their arms around each other and smiling.

Lyrics:  The language is an annoying necessity / And I depend on all the 
regular things

The camera reaches Willow, who is looking around for Buffy. She turns 
around, looks up and spots her on the upper level leaning against the 
railing and watching the band. The camera pans up to her.

Lyrics:  Got a list tattooed on my memory / Of how our tryst should 
unfold

Behind Buffy a boy approaches her.

Lyrics:  I'm falling from the opposite

Ben:  Hey.

Buffy turns to him, a little surprised.

Lyrics:  What good is it

Ben:  I'm Ben. We had Algebra II together last year.

Lyrics:  Fight the map with no key attached

Buffy:  Sorry, I pretty much repress anything math-related.

Lyrics:  My heart's enlarged, and I charge / What do you say

Ben:  Ms. Jackson? Second period? You sat in the seat three over and one 
behind.

Lyrics:  To a dream that won't go away

Buffy:  Oh! Yeah, I remember now, it's the one with the desks and the 
chalkboards and pencils and stuff, right?

Ben:  That's the one. (chuckles)

Buffy:  (smiles and points at her head) Like a steel trap.

Lyrics:  'Cause I don't know if I can stand it

Ben:  So, I was wondering, you know the dance tomorrow night? Are you 
going?

Buffy:  You mean the Sadie Hawkins thing? The deal where the girls ask 
the boys?

Ben:  Yeah.

Lyrics:  Forever isn't something you want to be

Ben:  And I thought maybe, you know, if you're free, you might ask me.

Lyrics:  And I rely on familiar things

Buffy:  Oh, gosh... (exhales) I...

Ben:  (holds up his hand) Oh, oh, hey, hey, no, don't, don't worry about 
it...

Buffy:  No, no, you seem like a really great guy, it's...

Lyrics:  Seven days all have special meanings

Buffy:  ...me. I-I'm not seeing anybody.

Lyrics:  But you just call it a week

Buffy:  Ever again, actually.

Ben:  Oh. That's, that's too bad.

Lyrics:  I'm falling from the opposite / What good is it

Ben:  Okay, well, I better... (indicates away and goes)

Lyrics:  Fight the map with no key attached

Buffy:  (to herself) Sorry.

Lyrics:  My heart's enlarged, and I charge

She watches him go for a moment, glances sadly down at the band and then 
heads for the stairs.

Cut to the stage. The camera focuses on the singer and the band as she 
sings the refrain again.

Lyrics:  I'm falling from the opposite / What good is it / Fight the map 
with no key attached / My heart's enlarged, and I charge

When Buffy reaches the bottom of the stairs Willow meets her.

Willow:  Hey! You're bailing?

Buffy:  Yeah. I'm gonna stop by the library and see if Giles wants me to 
patrol, and then sack it.

Willow:  You've been doing that a lot. Patrolling and sacking. In fact, 
you've kind of been All-Work-And-No-Play Buffy.

Buffy:  I play. I have *big* fun. I came here tonight, didn't I?

Willow:  You came, you saw, you (glances up) rejected.

Buffy:  You mean that guy? Just not in date mode right now.

Willow:  (smiles) Well, maybe you need to date to get in date mode.

Buffy:  I don't think I'm ready for that, Will.

Willow:  You're thinking too much. Maybe you need to be impulsive. 
(smiles)

Buffy:  Impulsive? Do you remember my ex-boyfriend, the vampire? I slept 
with him, he lost his soul, now my boyfriend's gone forever, and the 
demon that wears his face is killing my friends. The next impulsive 
decision I make will involve my choice of dentures.

Willow:  Okay, the Angel thing went badly, I'm on board with that, but 
that's not your fault. And anyways, love isn't always like that. Love 
can be... (smiles) nice!

Cut to the halls at Sunnydale High School. A boy is chasing a girl as 
she walks away from him determinedly.

Boy:  (angrily) Come back here! We're not finished!

He grabs her by the arm and turns her around to face him.

Boy:  You don't care anymore, is that it?

Girl:  (sobbing) No, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter what I feel.

Boy:  Then tell me you don't love me. (shakes her) Say it!

Girl:  Will that help? Is that what you need to hear? I don't. I don't! 
Now let me go. (tries to go)

Boy:  No! A person doesn't just wake up one day and stop loving 
somebody.

He takes a step back, raises a revolver, pulls the hammer back and aims 
it at her. She looks at the gun, then up at him, frightened.

Boy:  Love is forever.

Opening credits roll. Buffy's theme plays.

                    ~~~~~~~~~~ Part 1 ~~~~~~~~~~

The halls at Sunnydale High. The boy has his gun trained on the girl.

Boy:  I'm not afraid to use it. I swear! If I can't be with you...

Buffy comes walking around the corner and sees them.

Buffy:  Hey!

Girl:  Oh, my God!

She turns and starts walking away. Buffy starts running at the boy.

Boy:  DON'T WALK AWAY FROM ME, BITCH!

Down another hall George the janitor hears the yelling, drops his mop 
and starts toward the commotion. Buffy comes running at the boy full 
steam. He looks at her just as she grabs his arm, raises it and brings 
it down over her shoulder, making him drop the gun. She elbows him hard 
in the gut, knocking the breath out of him. She turns around, grabs him 
by the shirt and yanks him hard to the floor. His spins a turn and a 
half on his way down and lands hard on his back. The girl just looks on 
in shock. Buffy bends down to pick the boy up by the collar. George 
arrives at a run and goes over to the girl. They look over at Buffy and 
the boy. She pushes him away. He is in open-mouthed shock over what just 
happened.

Boy:  What happened?

Buffy:  What happened?! You just went O.J. on your girlfriend!

His girlfriend looks down away from him.

Boy:  This is nuts! I... I don't know why I got so mad.

Buffy:  Because you're a jerk?

Girl:  He's not. We weren't even fighting a few minutes ago.

Boy:  We weren't, I, I swear to God!

Buffy:  If you weren't fighting, then why'd you have a gun?

George looks around the hall.

Boy:  I don't, I don't know. I don't even know where I got it.

George:  I don't see any gun.

Buffy looks at him, confused. The boy takes a look around also.

Cut to school the next day. Cut to Pricipal Snyder's office. He comes in 
and closes the door behind him. The camera starts to follow him to his 
desk.

Snyder:  I'm sure you know why I asked you here.

He passes Buffy as she takes a seat.

Buffy:  To thank me?

Snyder:  (walks around his desk) That's right, I wanna thank you. What 
would Sunnydale High do without you around to incite mayhem, chaos and 
disorder?

Buffy:  I don't incite! I stopped that boy from killing his girlfriend, 
ask him. Ask the janitor.

Snyder:  People can be coerced, Summers. I'm no stranger to conspiracy. 
I saw JFK. I'm a truth seeker. I've got a missing gun and two confused 
kids on my hands. Pieces of the puzzle. And I'm gonna look at all the 
pieces carefully and rationally, and I'm gonna keep looking until I know 
exactly how this is all your fault.

Buffy is about to respond when his secretary buzzes him on his office 
intercom.

Secretary:  Mr. Snyder, Billy Crandal chained himself to the snack 
machine again.

Snyder:  (to the intercom) Pathetic little no-life vegan.

He walks around his desk to go take care of Billy. Buffy stands up to go 
also.

Snyder:  Not so fast, missy. I'm not done with you yet. You stink of 
lies.

He points to her chair, and she sits back down and exhales. He leaves 
the office and closes the door behind him. Over to Buffy's right is a 
bookcase with copies of all of the yearbooks since Sunnydale High 
opened, and the one from 1955 slides out on its own and falls. She hears 
it hit the floor and looks down at it. She gets up and bends down to 
pick it up. She looks at the cover, looks over at its space on the 
shelf, shrugs and puts it back.

Cut to the computer science class. Willow is still substituting for Ms. 
Calendar. She walks along the front of the class.

Willow:  So, for next time read the chapters on information grouping and 
binary coding.

Giles looks into the classroom from the hall.

Willow:  I bet you'll think coding is pretty cool. I mean, if you find 
two-digit, multi-stacked conversions and primary number clusters a big 
hoot.

Everyone in the class laughs. The bell rings, and the students begin to 
leave. Willow watches them go and notices Giles waiting just inside of 
the doorway.

Willow:  Giles! (goes to him) I made them laugh, did you hear? I did the 
joke thing! (smiles) (goes back to the desk)

Giles:  Yes, yes, so it seems. I-I mean, um, (approaches the desk) uh, 
you did indeed. Good, good, good show. I-I-I just stopped by to, to see 
if you needed any assistance, (sits on the desk) but you seem to have 
things quite under control.

Willow:  (puts things away) Well, I had good lesson plans. Ms. Calendar 
had them on her computer.

Giles:  Yes, yes, she was very, um... uh, dedicated.

Willow:  And I found a bunch of files and Internet sites on paganism and 
magic and stuff. (smiles)

Giles:  Oh?

Willow:  Yes, it's really interesting.

Giles looks down away from her.

Willow:  (reaches for something on the desk) And, uh, I found this in 
her drawer. (Giles looks up) She told me it was a rose quartz. (Giles 
looks at her hands) And it has healing powers.

She holds up a light pink quartz stone strung on a thin leather thong.

Willow:  I thought she'd want you to have it.

He gets up from the desk and slowly takes the necklace from her. He 
gently turns it over in his hand.

Giles:  Oh, thank you, Willow, that's, um... that's very thoughtful of 
you.

He turns and leaves the classroom. Willow watches him go with a small 
smile on her face.

Cut to history class. Buffy has her chin propped up in her hand, bored 
with the lecture and trying not to fall asleep to the drone of the male 
teacher's voice.

Teacher:  Before 1935, the new deal focused on revitalizing stricken 
business and agricultural communities. And the new deal also tried to 
regulate the nation's financial hierarchy to avoid another disaster like 
the 1929 stock market crash.

Buffy can't help but close her eyes for a moment. The next thing she 
knows she hears a woman's voice, and she shakes herself out of her 
reverie.

Ms. Newman:  Don't forget, your assignments are due on Friday, class.

The students begin to leave. Buffy looks around and is taken aback by 
the sudden changed appearance of the classroom and the different dress 
and hairstyles of the other students.

Girl#1:  I told Ms. Hall we'd go help decorate the gym. Who are you 
taking?

She hands a flyer for the Sadie Hawkins Dance to another girl. Buffy can 
see that the year on it reads 1955.

Girl#2:  David said yes.

Girl#1:  Oh, you're kidding! He's so dreamy!

Buffy looks all around, confused.

Ms. Newman:  (collecting papers) Thank you.

James goes up to the desk and hands in his paper also.

Ms. Newman:  Thank you, James. How are you enjoying that book I loaned 
you? The Hemingway.

Buffy observes and listens to the conversation.

James:  I like it. Very much. It's honest.

He slowly reaches for Ms. Newman's hand and gently takes it.

Ms. Newman:  (exhales) Yes, it's, um... it's based on a true story, 
actually. He fell in love with his...

They are interrupted by the door opening, and let go of their hands. 
Suddenly Buffy finds herself back in her history class as her teacher 
continues his lecture while writing on the board.

Teacher:  ...hours, child labor...

Buffy stares in surprise at what the teacher is writing.

Teacher:  ...and collective bargaining.

The teacher looks back at the class. The students all start laughing. He 
looks back at the board and sees that he's just written "DON'T WALK AWAY 
FROM ME BITCH!" in huge letters.

Teacher:  Oh, my God!

He quickly grabs an eraser and frantically wipes it away.

Boy:  (smiling) Did you see what he wrote?

Cut to the halls. Buffy and Xander walk through the doors from the 
lounge and head down the hall.

Buffy:  I'm telling you, something weird is going on.

Xander:  Something weird is going on. Isn't that our school motto?

Buffy:  Pretty much. But I don't know. This time it bugs me.

They reach his locker, and he starts to work the combination.

Xander:  I don't wanna poo-poo your wiggins, but a domestic dispute, a 
little case of chalkboard Tourette's? All sounds like Hellmouth Lite to 
me.

He opens his locker, and a wiry-muscled green arm shoots out and grabs 
him by the shirt. He screams, and it pulls at him and slams him into the 
locker. Buffy grabs him by the shoulders and tries to pull him away, but 
the arm is extremely strong and pulls Xander away from her and against 
the locker again. He screams out in pain when he hits it. Buffy grabs 
him again and pulls harder, and the arm lets go. Xander falls to the 
floor as Buffy slams the locker shut. He scrambles back to his feet, and 
they both look around the hall and see the other students' reactions. 
They are all confused, but stay away and just stare. Buffy gives Xander 
an intent look and indicates that they should open his locker again and 
take a look inside. Xander rubs his chin and stands ready as Buffy 
slowly lifts the latch. She slowly opens the door, and they peek in. 
Nothing. They open it all the way, and it appears to be completely 
normal.

Cut to the library. Willow is at the table studying. She looks up when 
she hears the doors open and sees Xander's torn shirt.

Willow:  Xander, what happened? Did Cordelia win another round in the 
broom closet?

Xander:  You're just a big bucket of funny, Will.

Buffy sits down next to her. Xander walks over to Giles, who is kneeling 
and going through some books on a shelf.

Xander:  I'll have you know I was just accosted by some kind of, um, 
locker monster.

Giles:  (looks up) Loch Ness Monster?

Buffy:  'Locker' monster is what he said. But it wasn't really a 
monster. It was, like, this big arm that came out of the locker, but 
then we opened it again, it was gone. Nothing.

Xander:  This was right after Buffy's history teacher starts doing some 
freaky channeling thing in class.

Giles:  (stands up) Ooh! Sounds like paranormal phenomena.

Willow:  (smiles) A ghost? Cool!

Xander:  Oh, no, no. No. No cool. This was no wimpy chain rattler. This 
was 'I'm dead as hell, and I'm not gonna take it anymore.'

Giles:  Well, despite the Xander-speak, that's a fairly accurate 
definition of a poltergeist.

Xander:  I defined something? Accurately? (closes a book on the table) 
Guess I'm done with the book learning. (sits)

Buffy:  So we have some bad boo on our hands?

Giles:  Yes.

Willow:  Well, why is it here? Does it just wanna scare people?

Giles:  Unfortunately, he doesn't know exactly what he wants. That's, 
that's the trouble. See, uh, many times the spirit is plagued by all 
manner of worldly troubles. Being dead, it has no way to, uh, to make 
its peace. So it, it lashes out, growing ever more confused, ever more 
angry.

Buffy:  So it's a normal teenager, only dead.

Willow:  Well, what can we do? Is there any way to stop it?

Giles:  (sits on the table) Uh, the only tried and true way is to work 
out what unresolved issues keep it here, and-and-and, um, resolve them.

Buffy:  Fabulous. Now we're Dr. Laura for the deceased.

Giles:  Only if we can find out who this spirit is. (considers) Or was.

Cut to the halls that evening. George is doing his usual mopping. Behind 
him a classroom door opens, and a teacher comes out to go home.

George:  Working late Ms. Frank?

Ms. Frank:  My fault. Let myself get behind. (stops) Is it okay to walk 
here George? It is George, right?

George:  Oh, yes ma'am. You go ahead.

Ms. Frank:  Thanks. (continues on her way) You have a nice evening.

George:  You too. Drive safe. (looks up at her) Oh, Ms. Frank?

Ms. Frank:  Yes?

George:  (drops his mop and approaches her) You can't make me disappear 
just because you say it's over.

Ms. Frank:  (shakes her head) There's no way we can be together. (steps 
closer) No way people will ever understand. Accept it.

George:  Is that what this is about? What other people think?

Ms. Frank:  No! I just want you to be able to have some kind of a normal 
life. We can never have that. Don't you see?

George:  I don't give a damn about a normal life! I'm going crazy not 
seeing you. I think about you every minute.

She steps closer and puts her hand up on his cheek. He looks down sadly.

Ms. Frank:  I know. But it's over. It has to be.

She turns around and starts to leave. He looks up again and starts to 
chase after her.

George:  (angrily) Come back here! We're not finished yet!

He grabs her by the arm and turns her around to face him.

George:  You don't care anymore? Is that it?

Ms. Frank:  (sobbing) It doesn't matter, it doesn't matter what I feel.

George:  Then tell me you don't love me. (shakes her) Say it!

Ms. Frank:  Will that help? Is that what you have to hear? I don't. I 
don't. Now let me go. (tries to go)

George:  No. A person doesn't just wake up one day and stop loving 
somebody.

A gun materializes in his hand. He takes a step back, raises the 
revolver, pulls the hammer back and aims it at her. She looks at the 
gun, frightened.

George:  Love is forever.

                    ~~~~~~~~~~ Part 2 ~~~~~~~~~~

The library. The camera pans through the main room over to a window 
looking into Giles' office. George and Ms. Frank can be heard faintly as 
they continue their quarrel.

George:  I'm not afraid to use it. I swear. If I can't be with you...

Ms. Frank:  Oh, my God.

George:  DON'T WALK AWAY FROM ME, BITCH!

Giles notices George's loud yelling and looks up from his desk. He gets 
up, takes off his glasses and walks out of his office to the area behind 
the checkout counter. There he hears a faint female voice.

Voice:  I need you.

He looks around for a moment, then jumps to a conclusion.

Giles:  Jenny.

Cut to the hall. He arrives at the hall intersection.

George:  Don't!

Giles looks in the direction of George's voice and sees him out on the 
balcony holding the gun up to Ms. Frank.

George:  Don't do that, damn it! Don't talk to me like I'm some dumb...

The gun goes off. Giles rushes to the other side of the intersection and 
hides behind the corner, watching the events as they unfold. Outside Ms. 
Frank goes into shock from the bullet wound and begins to fall backward. 
She tumbles over the balcony railing down to the base of the stairs 
below. There George sees her lying dead with her eyes closed. He panics 
and runs into the hall. As he reaches the intersection Giles rushes out, 
grabs him and tackles him to the floor. George loses his grip on the gun 
and it slides away. As it does so it dissolves and disappears in a whiff 
of black vapor. George raises his head as Giles gets to his knees behind 
him and holds him down.

George:  What's going on?

Giles:  What's going on? You just shot a woman.

George is stunned by the realization that it actually happened.

Cut to a modern-looking but deserted mansion. Cut inside to an atrium. 
Angelus comes in leading Spike and Drusilla on a tour.

Angelus:  And this... this is the garden.

Drusilla:  Wow! (walks through) Look. Jasmine. (holds a flower)

Angelus:  Night blooming. (plays with some pruning shears)

Drusilla:  Like us. Oh, Angel, it's fairyland. (turns in excitement) 
Ooh!

Spike:  (still at the entrance) It's paradise. Big windows, lovely 
gardens. It'll be perfect when we want the sunlight to kill us.

Angelus:  If you don't like it, Spike, hit the stairs and go. Take a 
stand, man. (comes up behind Drusilla)

Spike:  Well, our old place was just fine till you went and had it 
burned down.

Angelus:  (walks around the center stone table) Things change, Spikey. 
You gotta roll with the punches. Well, actually, you pretty much got 
that part down, haven't you?

Spike:  Very funny, mate.

Angelus:  (peeks his head out from behind Dru) What can I say? (peeks 
from the other side of her head) I just love to see you smile, buddy.

He holds up a jasmine bloom and brushes it across Drusilla's cheek as he 
growls into her ear.

Spike:  Yeah, you're a giver. (turns and rolls out)

Cut to the library. Giles is in his office, and the others are standing 
outside his door.

Giles:  It was just as with the, the couple you encountered the other 
night, Buffy. The, the janitor remembered everything. He, he knew he'd 
killed this poor woman, but he had no idea why. Well, they-they had no 
intimate relationship.

He comes out with a few books and heads into the main area. They all 
follow.

Willow:  What about the gun? Did you find it?

Giles:  No, no. The police, everybody, we-we-we-we searched high and 
low. I think it's very clear what's happening here.

He goes into the cage with the books and puts them away.

Xander:  Fill me in then, 'cause I've read the book, seen the movie, and 
I'm still fuzzy about what's going on.

Giles:  It's Jenny.

Buffy:  What?

Xander:  You think she's the ghost?

Giles:  Well, don't you see? Well, she-she-she died here under tragic 
circumstances, a-a-and now she's trapped.

Willow:  But what about the gun? I mean, Angel didn't shoot Ms. 
Calendar.

Giles:  The gun is insignificant. It's the violence of the thing that 
matters. (goes back into his office)

Buffy:  I don't know. These fights these couples keep having, it's sort 
of... specific.

Willow:  She's right. It's a pattern that doesn't fit with the way Ms. 
Calendar died.

Giles:  (comes out of his office) Yes, well, I, uh, I appreciate your 
thoughts on the matter, I, in fact I... well, I *encourage* you to, to 
always, uh, challenge me, uh, when you feel it's appropriate. You should 
never be cowed by authority. (starts back in, but comes back) Except, of 
course, in this instance, when I am clearly right and you are clearly 
wrong. (goes back in)

Cut to the computer science classroom. Willow, Xander and Buffy come in.

Willow:  This is freaky. I don't ever remember ever seeing Giles be this 
weird.

She sits at the desk and types at her laptop. Xander leans on a table 
behind her. Buffy walks to the other side of the desk.

Xander:  I know. He's usually Investigate-Things-From-Every-Boring-Angle 
Guy. Now he's I-Cling-Onto-My-One-Lame-Idea Guy. What gives?

Buffy:  He misses her. He can't think. Just a little more fallout from 
my love life.

Willow:  Okay, but this ghost stuff is something else. Let me do a 
crosscheck on other shootings at the school.

Buffy:  Yeah, we need some alternate ghost theories. What do we know?

Xander:  Dog spit is cleaner than human.

Buffy:  Besides that?

Willow:  (finds something) Oh, boy, we know plenty.

She scrolls through a newspaper article on her laptop. The title reads 
"Sunnydale High Jock Kills Lover, Self".

Willow:  It says a student murdered a teacher on the night of the Sadie 
Hawkins Dance. The rumor was they were having an affair, and she tried 
to break it off. After he killed her, he went into the music room and 
shot himself.

Xander:  Ladies and gentlemen, we have a ghost. It is one of those two, 
right?

Willow:  It all fits: the gun, the Sadie Hawkins Dance.

Buffy:  Which is tonight.

Xander:  How come we've never heard about this murder-suicide thing 
before? When did it happen?

Buffy:  1955.

Willow and Xander both look up at her surprised.

Willow:  How did you know?

Cut to a short while later. Buffy sets the 1955 Sunnydale High yearbook 
on the desk and opens it to a picture of Ms. Newman.

Buffy:  Okay, here's the new strangeness. I dreamt about this woman, 
(points) Grace Newman, the other day. (turns more pages) Her and this 
guy. (points)

Willow:  Jim Stanley? He's the one. He did it.

Xander:  Your dreams are getting wicked accurate, Buff. You wouldn't 
happen to see me coming across some big cash? Or possibly knowing the 
love of a woman? In a full body sense?

Buffy:  (ignores him) He couldn't make her love him, so he killed her. 
(turns away) Sicko. (steps away)

Willow:  He looks so normal on this picture. He was smart, too. He made 
the honor roll.

Buffy:  (looks back) Smart.

Xander:  He killed a person and killed himself. Those are pretty much 
two of the dumbest things you could do.

Willow:  I know, but... Well, don't you feel kind of bad for them?

Buffy:  Sure I feel lousy. For her. He's a murderer and he should pay 
for it.

Willow:  With his life?

Buffy:  No, he should be doing sixty years in a prison, breaking rocks 
and making special friends with Roscoe the Weightlifter.

Xander:  Yikes. The quality of mercy is not Buffy.

Willow:  Whose ghost do you think we're dealing with? His or hers?

Buffy:  Well, considering how violent it is, I'm gonna say his.

Xander:  That tracks.

Willow:  (sits) Well, I've been browsing on some of Ms. Calendar's pagan 
sites. Maybe I can find a way to communicate with them and... we can 
find out what he wants.

Buffy:  Who cares what he wants? We need to shut him down before some 
other innocent guy goes and kills some poor nice girl and then blows his 
brains out all over the music room wall.

Xander:  Okay! (smiles and rubs his hands) Who's hungry?

Cut to the cafeteria. Kraut dogs and spaghetti are on the menu today. 
Cordelia has opted for spaghetti, and after paying comes over to the 
team's table with her tray.

Cordelia:  I hope you guys aren't going to the Sadie Hawkins Dance 
tonight, (sits) 'cause I'm organizing a boycott. Do you realize that the 
girls have to ask the guys? And pay and everything? I mean, whose genius 
idea was that?

Xander:  Obviously, some hairy-legged feminist.

Cordelia:  Really! Well, we need to nip this thing in the bud. I mean, 
otherwise, things are going to get really scary.

Suddenly they hear several students scream. The hotdogs and spaghetti 
have all turned into snakes. A boy pulls his snakedog away from his 
mouth. He has a snake protruding from his lips. He drops the bun, spits 
out the snake and quickly gets up, backing away from his table. Xander 
and the others look back at their table and see snakes all over it as 
well. They quickly get up, except for Cordelia, who is too busy 
screaming to think. When she finally looks at the table again a snake 
lunges at her and bites her on the cheek. She reacts fast, throws the 
snake off of her and runs. Snyder comes through the door and sees the 
mayhem. He steps back just as a student comes running by and falls over 
a table. Moments later the cafeteria is deserted.

Cut to later outside. The police are there. A team of pest controllers 
is gathering the snakes, which in the mean time have managed to make 
their way all around the school. Students are still fleeing the building 
and running around. Cut to an ambulance. Cordelia and Xander sit at the 
back while a paramedic dresses Cordelia's snakebite.

Cordelia:  Perfect. I'm gonna be scarred and swollen. Why didn't they 
just kill me?

Cut to the Police Chief's car. Snyder holds the door open as the Chief 
gets out.

Chief:  Schoolboy pranks?

Snyder:  Never sell. (slams the door and they walk)

Chief:  The sewer got backed up.

Snyder:  Better. I can probably make that one fly. But this is getting 
out of hand. People will talk.

Chief:  You'll take care of it.

Snyder:  I'm doing everything I can, but you people have to realize...

Two men arrive.

Man:  Snyder, what's going on here?

Snyder:  Backed up sewer line. Same thing happened in San Diego just 
last week.

The two men continue into the building.

Snyder:  (to the Chief) We're on a Hellmouth. Sooner or later, people 
are gonna figure that out.

Chief:  The city council was told that you could handle this job. If you 
feel that you can't, perhaps you'd like to take that up... with the 
Mayor. (leaves)

Snyder:  I'll handle it. I will.

Cut to Buffy's house that night. Cut inside to her room. She's on her 
bed, Xander is in her wicker chair, Cordelia is kneeling and leaning 
against the bed and Willow is standing.

Willow:  Remember the plan to contact the spirit and talk to it? Scrap 
that plan. Buffy, you were right. The time for touchy-feely 
communication is passed. I've done some homework and found the only 
solution is the final solution.

Xander:  Nuke the school? (smiles) I like that.

Willow:  Not quite. Exorcism.

Cordelia:  Are you crazy? I saw that movie! Even the priest died.

Buffy:  What's the deal?

Willow lays down a map of the school building, and they all lean in to 
look.

Willow:  Okay, see here, the balcony? That's where the original teacher 
died back in 1955 and that teacher last night. That's the hot spot where 
all the bad mojo is coming from. We need to create a Mangus-tripod.

Cordelia:  A what?

Willow:  (points) One person chants here on the hot spot. And the other 
three chant in other places around the school forming a triangle. It's 
supposed to bind the bad spirit and keep it from doing any more harm.

Buffy:  Well, I'll take the hot spot. (takes the map) If there's 
trouble, that's where it'll be.

Willow nods.

Xander:  This ghost, this James guy, is fixating on you, Buffy. The 
dreams, the yearbook... You sure you can handle it?

Buffy:  Well, I'm hoping he'll show. I truly am.

Cut to the school that night. They all come into the hall from outside.

Buffy: Okay, we all have our places. We do the chant and light the 
candle at midnight exactly. Any questions?

Cordelia:  Yeah, what if this mangled triangle thingy doesn't work?

Willow:  Oh! I almost forgot. I made us all scapulas. (hands them out)

Xander:  Okay, so we can flip the ghost over when it turns a nice golden 
brown?

Willow:  Scapula, not spatula. Um, you wear it around your neck for 
protection.

Cordelia:  You expect me to wear this? It smells like grandpa breath.

Willow:  Sorry, I didn't have a lot of time. I had to use sulfur. 
Stinky, but effective.

Buffy:  Okay, let's do this.

They all continue into the student lounge.

Cordelia:  No problem. This will be a piece of cake. Right?

They hear a creaking and then a crashing noise. They jump and look in 
that direction and see that the doors at the end of the hall have 
slammed shut on their own. One by one the other doors at the ends of the 
two intersecting halls slam shut.

                    ~~~~~~~~~~ Part 3 ~~~~~~~~~~

The atrium in the mansion. Drusilla sifts through the dirt in one of the 
large planters. Spike is in his wheelchair, and Angelus is on the bench 
behind Drusilla.

Drusilla:  Maybe I'll sleep underground. Dig myself a little burrow.

Spike:  What about your pretty dress, sweet? It'll get all dirty.

Drusilla:  Then I'll sleep naked. Like the animals do.

Angelus:  You know, I'm suddenly liking this plan.

Drusilla lies down on the ground in front of the planter.

Spike:  Fortunately, nobody cares what you like, mate.

Angelus:  Oh, yeah? Let's ask Dru.

He slides off of the bench and crouches, looking at Drusilla. She begins 
to laugh as she has a vision.

Drusilla:  There's a gate! (rolls onto her back, laughing) It's opening! 
(gets to her knees)

Angelus:  Incoming! I love when she does this.

Spike:  What gate, pet? What do you see?

Drusilla:  (bounces gleefully) It's black. (hums) It wants her. (hums)

Angelus:  (crawls up behind her) Wants who?

Drusilla:  The Slayer. It's time, Angel. (stands up) She's ready for you 
now. (begins to move) She's dancing. Dancing with death.

Spike:  Big deal. He won't do anything. Our man Angel here likes to talk 
but he's not much for action. All hat and no cattle.

Angelus:  (grabs Dru's waist) I don't know about that. (turns her 
around) I think this whole Slayer thing has run its course. (crouches 
down by her) I'm ready to focus my energy elsewhere.

Spike:  Really?

Angelus:  Oh, yeah! What, with you being Special Needs Boy, I figure I 
should stick close to home. (walks his fingers up Dru's thigh and waist) 
You and Dru can always use another pair of hands.

Drusilla coos with delight. Angelus chuckles maniacally. Spike looks at 
the two of them angrily.

Cut to the hall outside of the school library. Willow walks along and 
slows down to look down the other hall before continuing. Behind her 
Giles opens the door, and she screams out in fright. He startles and 
yells out, too.

Giles:  God, Willow, what are you doing here? You're not supposed to be 
inside.

Willow:  Me? What about you?

Giles:  I'm, uh, I'm, I'm trying to, uh... (puts on his glasses) I think 
I-I may be close to, uh, contacting Jenny.

Willow gives him an understanding look. He starts to go back into the 
library, but turns back.

Giles:  What's that smell?

Willow:  It's my scapula.

Giles:  Ah, right, of course. Did you use sulfur?

Willow:  Yeah.

Giles:  That's clever. Uh, well, uh, run along then. Th-there may be 
some, uh, paranormal ph-phenomena if I contact her. Y-y-you don't want 
to be in the line of fire.

He goes back in, and the door swings shut behind him.

Willow:  Okay. 'Night.

Cut to a girls' bathroom. Cordelia comes in with her candle and 
flashlight and looks around. The place is deserted. She sees her 
reflection in the mirror with a bandage on her cheek. She walks over to 
it and sets the candle down on the shelf. She pulls off the bandage and 
winces at the pain. Leaning toward the mirror she inspects the twin fang 
marks on her cheek.

Cut to the hall. Buffy walks along and hears the song "I Only Have Eyes 
For You", by The Flamingos, playing somewhere. Down another hall she can 
see shadows in a bright light dancing against a wall.

Lyrics:  My love must be a kind of blind love

She walks toward the sound and through a pair of doors.

Lyrics:  I can't see anyone but you

Beyond them is another set of doors to the music room. A Class of '55 
Sadie Hawkins Dance flyer is taped to one of the door windows. She steps 
over to the other door and looks in. There she sees James and Grace 
dancing slowly to the music.

Cut to the cafeteria. There are still a few snakes there. Xander comes 
in and looks around.

Xander:  Oh, yeah, baby, it's snakalicious in here.

Cut to the landing up the stairs from the student lounge. Willow steps 
up to it and looks around nervously.

Cut to Buffy watching James and Grace slowly turn as they dance.

Lyrics:  The moon may be high / but I can't see a thing in the sky

When James turns into view again Buffy sees that his face is all rotted.

Lyrics:  'Cause I only have eyes for you

Buffy stares back in open-mouthed shock. James and Grace are suddenly 
gone.

Cut to the girls' bathroom. Cordelia digs in her purse for some makeup. 
When she looks back up and is about to put some on, the side of her face 
with the snakebite suddenly becomes rotten. She screams at the top of 
her lungs.

Cut to the landing. Willow sets her candle down on the floor. Below her 
the floor suddenly starts to swirl, and a green demonic hand reaches up 
and grabs her, pulling her down. She screams for all she's worth, and 
grabs the stair railing to keep from being pulled in.

Willow:  (screams) GILES!

He hears her screams and comes running.

Giles:  WILLOW!

Willow:  GILES! GILES!

The pull is too strong, and she loses her grip on the railing.

Giles:  WHERE ARE YOU?!

He comes running into the lounge area.

Willow:  PLEASE! HELP! HELP ME!

He turns and sees her sinking into the floor. He scrambles up the stairs 
to her aid.

Willow:  HELP! HELP! HELP! HELP!

He grabs her arms and starts to pull. She screams again as the pit 
continues to try to suck her in. Giles lets out a grunt and manages to 
slowly lift her out. When she's free of the pit she suddenly snaps into 
his arms, and they both go rolling down the stairs.

Cut to the balcony. Buffy puts her scapula around her neck and pulls her 
hair out of the back. Suddenly she senses something and stares off into 
space. She has a vision of Ms. Newman running out of the hall onto the 
balcony being chased by James with his gun.

James:  Stop!

Cut to Ms. Newman facing James.

Ms. Newman:  Just calm down.

Cut to James shaking the gun at her. It goes off. Cut to Ms. Newman 
clutching her chest over the bullet wound. She pulls her hand away and 
looks at the blood. Cut to Buffy for just an instant. Cut to James 
walking into the music room. Cut to him putting on a record. Cut to him 
crying. Cut to him raising the gun to his head. Cut to him crying again 
as he pulls the trigger. Cut to Buffy on the balcony. James comes up to 
her with a rotted face and grabs her by the arms.

James:  Get out!

The vision of him fades quickly, and she takes a few steps back.

Cut to the girls' bathroom. Cordelia is panting with fear, covering her 
face with her hands. She looks into the mirror again and sees that her 
face is suddenly normal again. She pulls her hands away, takes a closer 
look and begins to calm down a bit.

Cut to the lounge. Giles gets up and goes up a few steps to make sure 
that the pit is gone. He comes back down to Willow.

Giles:  Are you all right?

Willow:  (still frightened) Giles, (shakes her head) Jenny could never 
be this mean.

Giles:  (glances up at the landing) I know. (sits) It's, it's not her, 
is it?

Willow:  I'm sorry.

The town clock begins to strike midnight.

Willow:  Oh, God. Oh.

She scrambles back up to the landing to light the candle. He follows.

Giles:  Careful up here!

Cut to the girls' bathroom. Cordelia is nervous but ready with her 
candle and lighter.

Cut to the balcony. Buffy strikes a match and lights her candle.

Cut to the landing. Willow struggles with her lighter. The flame won't 
ignite. Giles crouches down, takes it from her and lights the candle.

Willow:  I shall confront and expel all evil.

Cut to the girls' bathroom. Cordelia lights her candle.

Cordelia:  I shall *totally* confront and expel all evil.

Cut to the cafeteria. Xander sits on a table with his lit candle before 
him. He has his legs crossed, hands folded and eyes closed as if in 
prayer.

Xander:  Out of marrow and bone...

Cut to the balcony. Buffy lights her candle.

Buffy:  Out of house and home... never to come here again.

Cut to the landing. Giles and Willow look around. Nothing is happening. 
Cut to the cafeteria. Xander opens his eyes. Nothing happens there 
either. Cut to the bathroom. Cordelia looks around also. All seems 
quiet. Cut to the balcony. Buffy watches as a breeze blows out her 
candle. She looks in the direction of the gust. Cut to the landing. The 
candle there has been blown out, too. Giles and Willow exchange a look. 
Cut to the cafeteria. Xander's candle is out also. He looks around 
nervously. Cut to the girls' bathroom. Cordelia watches the smoke drift 
from the glowing wick. Cut to the lounge. Giles and Willow come down the 
stairs and look down the hall. They hear a faint buzzing. It steadily 
gets louder. At the far end of the hall they see a dark swarm of wasps 
coming toward them.

Giles:  Oh, my God!

They both break into a dead run. As they round a corner Buffy and 
Cordelia join them from another hall. 

Giles:  You all right?

Xander comes running out of the cafeteria and keeps pace. They reach the 
far end of the hall where the doors are jammed shut.

Buffy:  Get back!

Giles backs off, and Buffy kicks the door open, shattering the glass. 
They all immediately run out. The wasps are right behind them. When they 
reach the street Xander looks back and stops.

Xander:  Check it.

They all stop and turn to look as well.

Xander:  I'd say school's out for good.

They all stare in amazement. Giles takes off his glasses. The wasps have 
arranged themselves in a wall around the school so that nothing can get 
in or out.

Cut to the living room at Buffy's house. She leans against the wall. 
Giles and the others are seated around the coffee table. He pours some 
tea for himself. There is also a pot of coffee for the others.

Giles:  The good news is none of you girls were shot. Well, we've 
established, based on all the parallels and-and-and Buffy's visions, 
that it's James' spirit.

Willow:  So what do we do, Giles? About James.

Giles:  Well, he's obviously reliving the night of the Sadie Hawkins 
Dance when he killed Ms. Newman. It-it's-it's common enough for a spirit 
to do this, to... recreate a, a tragedy.

Cordelia:  (munches a cracker) Hey. If Sunnydale High School shuts down 
forever, do we automatically graduate?

Xander:  (ignores her) But why? What does he want? (thinks again about 
Cordelia's question) Actually, that's an interesting point.

Giles:  He's, he's trying to... resolve whatever issues are keeping him 
in limbo. W-w-what exactly those are, I'm not...

Buffy:  (interrupts) He wants forgiveness.

Giles:  (leans back) Yes. (gets up) I imagine he does. (goes to her) But 
when James possesses people, they act out exactly what happened that 
night. So he's experiencing a form of purgatory instead. I mean, he's, 
he's doomed to, to kill his Ms. Newman over and over and over again, 
and... forgiveness is impossible.

Buffy:  Good. He doesn't deserve it.

Giles:  To forgive is an act of compassion, Buffy. It's, it's not done 
because people deserve it. It's done because they need it.

Buffy:  No. James destroyed the one person he loved the most in a moment 
of blind passion. And that's not something you forgive. No matter why he 
did what he did. And no matter if he knows now that it was wrong and 
selfish and stupid, it is just something he's gonna have to live with.

Xander:  He can't live with it, Buff. He's dead.

She just looks back at them all for a moment, then stalks off into the 
kitchen.

Cordelia:  Okay. Overidentify much? (munches her cracker)

Cut to the kitchen. Buffy comes in. She has her hands in her pockets and 
finds a folded sheet of paper. She pulls it out and unfolds it. It's a 
Class of '55 Sadie Hawkins Dance flyer. She puts down the flyer and 
hears a faint male voice.

Voice:  I need you.

She goes out the kitchen door.

Cut to the living room. Willow gets up from her chair.

Willow:  So what do we do next? Do we go in again?

Giles:  Well, not now. No, the, uh... the spirit is too angry, too, too 
powerful. No, we have to work out exactly how and, and if this thing can 
be defeated.

Cut to the school. It is still surrounded by the swarm of wasps. Buffy 
walks up to it anyway. The swarm parts to let her in. When she reaches 
the doors they open for her, and the swarm closes the gap behind her.

                    ~~~~~~~~~~ Part 4 ~~~~~~~~~~

The kitchen at Buffy's house. Willow comes in looking for her.

Willow:  Hey, Buffy, are you...

See sees the flyer lying on the island and picks it up.

Willow:  Oh, God. Giles! (he comes in) She went back.

Cut to the school. They all stand in front of it looking at the swarm.

Xander:  So what now? Not even a mega-vat of Raid's gonna do the trick 
here.

Cordelia:  I don't get it. Is she trying to be a big loner hero or 
something?

Giles:  No. I believe she's under the spirit's thrall. He's, he's 
calling her.

Cordelia:  But why?

Giles:  James needs her to re-enact everything that happened on the 
night that he, he killed Ms. Newman. He wants to change things, make, 
make a happy ending.

Willow:  But it can't ever happen! It always ends the same, which means 
Buffy just went in there to get shot, Giles.

Giles:  Yes. But the school's deserted. There's no way for James to... 
to play his part. There's, there's no man inside for him to possess.

Xander:  So Buffy should be safe until we find a way to get her out.

Willow:  In theory, yeah.

Cut inside the school. Buffy walks idly through the halls. She stops by 
the trophy case and turns around. Angelus walks in and blocks the 
camera's view.

Angelus:  Fun fact about wasps.

Cut to Buffy with her back to Angelus.

Angelus:  They have no taste for the undead. Not that a sting would do 
me any damage, it's just... tonight's special. I wanted to look my best 
for you.

Buffy:  (quietly) You're the only one. The only person I can talk to.

Angelus:  Gosh, Buff. That's really pathetic.

Buffy:  (faces him) You can't make me disappear just because you say 
it's over.

Angelus:  Actually... (approaches her) I can. In fact... I just want you 
to be able to have some kind of normal life. We can never have that, 
don't you see?

Buffy:  I don't give a *damn* about a normal life! I'm going crazy not 
seeing you. I think about you every minute.

He raises his hand to her cheek. Cut to 1955. Grace puts her hand on 
James' cheek. He looks down sadly.

Ms. Newman:  I know. But it's over. It has to be!

She turns around and starts to leave. He looks up again and starts to 
chase after her. Cut to 1998. Buffy chases after Angelus.

Buffy:  (angrily) Come back here! We're not finished!

She grabs him by the arm and turns him around to face her.

Buffy:  You don't care anymore, is that it?

Angelus:  (sobbing) It doesn't matter, it doesn't matter what I feel.

Buffy:  Then tell me you don't love me!

Cut to 1955.

James:  Say it!

Ms. Newman:  Is that what you need to hear? Will that help? I don't.

Cut to 1998.

Angelus:  I don't. Now let me go. (tries to go)

Buffy:  No. A person doesn't just wake up and stop loving somebody!

Cut to 1955. Grace looks at James. He takes a step back, raises a 
revolver, pulls the hammer back and aims it at her. Cut to 1998. Angelus 
looks at the gun and then at Buffy, frightened.

Buffy:  Love is forever. I'm not afraid to use it, I swear! If I can't 
be with you...

Angelus:  Oh, my God!

He turns around and starts running out of the hall toward the balcony. 
Cut to 1955. Grace runs from the hall.

James:  DON'T WALK AWAY FROM ME...

Cut to 1998.

Buffy:  ...BITCH!

Angelus runs out of the hall. She runs after him. Cut to 1955. James 
runs after Grace. Cut to 1998. Angelus barges through the door out onto 
the balcony.

Buffy:  Stop it! (comes out the door) Stop it! Don't make me!

He stops next to the balcony railing.

Angelus:  (breathing heavily with fear) All right. Just... (turns 
around)

Cut to 1955. Grace turns around to face James.

Ms. Newman:  You know you don't want to do this. Let's both... just calm 
down. Now give me the gun. (holds out her hand)

James:  Don't. Don't do that, damn it!

Cut to 1998.

Buffy:  Don't talk to me like I'm some stupid...

The gun goes off. Angelus flinches from the wound. Cut outside the 
school. Giles and the others hear the gunshot. Willow draws a worried 
breath. Cut to the balcony. Angelus has his hand clutched to his chest. 
He pulls it away and sees the blood. He looks up at Buffy. She stares 
back in open-mouthed shock at what she just did.

Angelus:  James.

Cut to 1955. Grace goes into shock from the bullet wound and begins to 
fall backward. She tumbles over the balcony railing down to the base of 
the stairs below. Cut to 1998. Buffy just stares in shock. Cut to 1955. 
James sees Grace below lying dead with her eyes closed. He slowly goes 
back into the hall. Cut to 1998. Angelus lies prone at the base of the 
stairs below. Cut to the music room. Buffy slowly comes in. Cut to 
Angelus. His eyes suddenly open. He props himself up on his elbows and 
looks up at the balcony. Cut to the music room. Buffy walks to the 
record player at the back of the room. She turns it on and begins 
playing the record.

Lyrics:  My love must be a kind of blind love

She looks over into a mirror, and James looks back at her. Her eyes are 
full of tears as she looks at him. He looks down at the gun in his hand.

Lyrics:  I can't see anyone but you

The camera pans down from Buffy's face to the gun in her hand. She 
raises it slowly, but a hand takes it and pushes it back down. She turns 
and finds herself face to face with Angelus. 

Buffy:  Grace!

Angelus:  Don't do this.

Buffy:  But-but I killed you.

Angelus:  It was an accident. It wasn't your fault.

Buffy:  Oh, it *is* my fault. How could I...

Angelus:  Shhh. I'm the one who should be sorry, James. You thought I 
stopped loving you. But I never did. I loved you with my last breath.

Buffy lets out a few sobs.

Angelus:  Shhh... No more tears.

Cut to 1955. Grace and James kiss. Cut to 1998. Angelus and Buffy kiss. 
They hold each other tightly as they continue kissing for a long time. 
Above them in the ceiling a bright light appears, and the spirits of 
Grace and James leave this world for the next. As quickly as it appeared 
the light is gone. Buffy and Angelus gently break off their kiss and 
open their eyes.

Buffy:  (softly) Angel.

Suddenly he growls, pushes her away and runs from the room, leaving 
Buffy there in shock.

Dissolve to the library. Giles paces behind the counter. The door opens, 
and Willow, Xander and Cordelia come in.

Willow:  Everything seems normal. Not a snake, not a wasp.

Cordelia:  Yep. School can open again tomorrow.

Xander:  Explain to me again how that's a good thing.

They all lean against the counter.

Cordelia:  I'm drawing a blank.

Giles goes back into his office where Buffy is resting.

Giles:  Are you feeling any better?

Buffy:  James picked me. I guess... I guess I was the one he could 
relate to. He was so sad.

Giles:  (sits by her) Well... they can both rest now.

Buffy:  I still... (exhales) A part of me just doesn't understand why 
she would forgive him.

Giles:  Does it matter?

Buffy:  No. I guess not.

Cut to the atrium at the mansion. Angelus stands by the fountain bare-
chested, breathing frantically and scrubbing himself hard with the 
water.

Spike:  You might want to let up. They say when you've drawn blood, 
you've exfoliated.

Angelus:  What do you know about it? I'm the one who was friggin' 
violated. You didn't have this thing in you.

He walks from the fountain and passes Spike in disgust.

Drusilla:  What was it? A demon?

Angelus:  Love!

He grabs a clean shirt and starts to put it on.

Drusilla:  Poor Angel.

Angelus:  (walks back) Let's get outta here. I need a real vile kill 
before sunup to wipe this crap out of my system.

He pulls on his jacket over his still-unbuttoned shirt. Drusilla comes 
up to him and growls. He snarls back.

Drusilla:  Of course. We'll find you a nice toddler. (snarls)

Angelus starts up the stairs out of the garden.

Drusilla:  (to Spike) Want to come, pet?

Angelus:  (comes back down) No can do, Dru. I'm sure he'd be hell on 
wheels, but we don't have much time. (to Spike) Gotta travel light. 
(puts his hands on Spike's shoulders) Sorry. Try to have fun without me.

He goes back up the stairs, and Drusilla makes haste to follow. Spike 
watches them go with an angry look on his face and exhales.

Spike:  Oh, I will.

He takes his foot from its footrest and puts it on the ground. He slowly 
gets up and stands tall, apparently recovered from his weakness. He 
kicks back at his wheelchair angrily. It goes spinning away. He looks 
back up at the garden entryway.

Spike:  Sooner than you think.





[an error occurred while processing this directive]





