
   Becoming, Part 1 -  Buffy Episode 33 Transcript
   
    
   


Becoming, Part 1





Written by:  Joss Whedon
Directed by:  Joss Whedon
Transcribed by: AleXander Thompson

Copyright © 1998 Alexander Thompson

                   ~~~~~~~~~~ Disclaimer ~~~~~~~~~~

I do not own the characters in this story, nor do I own any rights to 
the television show "Buffy the Vampire Slayer". They were created by 
Joss Whedon and belong to him, Mutant Enemy, Sandollar Television, Kuzui 
Enterprises, 20th Century Fox Television and the WB Television Network.

This is not a novelization or a script. It is a straightforward and dry 
transcript of the episode "Becoming", part 1. It also includes 
descriptions of the settings, action scenes and camera movements where I 
felt they were needed.

I made every effort to accurately transcribe the dialogue from this 
episode. If you notice anything that is transcribed incorrectly, please 
let me know and I will post an update.                     rev 98.10.09

This episode was originally broadcast on May 12, 1998.

                    ~~~~~~~~~~ Prologue ~~~~~~~~~~

In every generation there is a Chosen One. She alone will stand against 
the vampires, the demons and the forces of darkness. She is the Slayer.

A town square in Galway, Ireland, 1753. The camera looks straight down 
from above onto the cobblestones. A lone rider on his horse passes 
underneath, and the camera follows them past a well as Angelus narrates.

Angelus:  There's moments in your life that make you, that set the 
course of who you're gonna be. Sometimes they're little, subtle moments. 
Sometimes... they're not. I'll show you what I mean.

The horseman continues past a tavern on the far side of the square. The 
door opens, and a young drunk Angel and his drunk friend are thrown out.

Angel:  (with an Irish accent) We'll be back when we've found a bit more 
cash money! Keep the girls warm!

The tavern proprietor slams the door shut, and Angel pounds on it a 
couple of times.

Angel's friend:  (moans) Let's go.

Angel staggers back over to him and puts his arm around him. They begin 
to walk with a definite sway in their step.

Angel:  Come on. We'll sneak in and take some of me father's silver. 
He'll never miss it. He eats with his hands, the pig.

His friend is too drunk to go on, and faints dead away, falling out of 
Angel's arm to the pavement. Angel looks down at him.

Angel:  Ah. Why don't you rest right here.

He takes a look around and spots a noble lady in a fancy period dress 
standing in an alley beyond an archway. The woman gives a slight 
backward glance to be sure she has his attention, and starts to walk 
further into the alley, disappearing around a corner from Angel's view. 
He follows her.

Cut to the alley. The woman continues her slow pace and looks up when 
Angel comes through the archway and begins to speak. As she gets closer 
to the camera it becomes clear that the woman is Darla. Her long curly 
blonde hair is very nicely coiffed.

Angel:  So, I'd ask myself... What's a lady of your station doing alone 
in an alley with the reputation that this one has?

Darla:  (still facing away) Maybe she's lonely.

Angel:  In that case, I'd offer myself as escort to protect you from 
harm and to while away the dull hours.

Darla:  You're very gracious.

Angel:  Hm. It's often been said.

Darla:  (turns to face him) Are you certain you're up to the challenge?

Angel:  (approaches her) Milady, you'll find that with the exception of 
an honest day's work, there's no challenge I'm not prepared to face.

He stops in front of her and looks into her eyes.

Angel:  Oh... But you're a pretty thing. Where are you from?

Darla:  (smiles) Around. Everywhere.

Angel:  I never been anywhere myself. Always wanted to see the world, 
but...

Darla:  I could show you. (smiles)

Angel:  Could you, then?

Darla:  Things you've never seen, never even heard of.

Angel:  Sounds exciting.

Darla:  It is. And frightening.

Angel:  I'm not afraid. Show me. Show me your world.

Darla:  (closes her eyes) Close your eyes.

Angel follows her example. The camera follows her hand as she puts it on 
his shoulder, and continues up to show her face vamped out. She smiles, 
lets out a low growl and opens wide as she leans in to bite him. When he 
feels the pain his eyes open wide, and he gasps. He can't keep steady, 
and sinks to his knees. Darla lets go of her bite, revealing his bloody 
neck, and stands up straight. She lifts her hand to her chest and draws 
a sharp fingernail across the skin above her breasts, allowing blood to 
trickle out. She grabs him by the back of the neck and pulls him in to 
her bosom so that his lips fall directly onto the cut, forcing him to 
taste of her blood. He puts his arms around her and drinks.

Cut to the cemetery in Sunnydale, 1998. Angelus walks through carefully 
and quietly while watching Buffy fight a pair of vampires nearby. He 
sees her kick one and then the other, and then continues on to a better 
vantage point. One of the vampires rushes Buffy, and she flips him over 
onto his back.

Buffy:  Nice try.

The other one comes at her again with a swing. She ducks it and punches 
him in the face, in the gut and again in the face. He falls to the 
ground, dazed. The first one comes at her again with a kick, but she 
blocks it with her arm, backhand punches him in the face, jabs him in 
the gut and grabs his arm, twisting it up high and forcing him to his 
knees in pain. Angelus looks on from behind a tree and smiles. The 
second vampire gets back up and rushes her. Without letting go of the 
first one she cleanly jams her stake into the other one's chest, and he 
crumbles into ashes. Angelus can't help but snicker. Buffy turns her 
attention back to the one she's holding and punches him in the face, 
making him roll away.

Buffy:  I want you to get a message to Angel for me. Tell him I'm done 
waiting. I'm taking the fight to him.

Angelus smiles as he listens.

Buffy:  You got that? Need me to write it down for you?

The vampire gets up and charges her. She grabs him and pulls him around 
and down to the ground, and immediately plunges her stake home. He 
bursts into ashes.

Buffy:  Alright, I'll tell him myself.

She gets up and walks over behind a gravestone, where she reaches down 
to help someone up.

Xander:  (moans) I'm good. Don't worry about me. (rubs his neck)

Buffy:  You know, you don't have to patrol with me.

Xander:  (indicates the pile of ash) I had that guy under control until 
he resorted to fisticuffs. (cranes his neck) Oh! What is that, um... 
five vampires in three nights?

Buffy:  Yep. But no Angel.

Xander:  Are you, uh, really that anxious to come up against him?

Buffy:  I want it over with.

Xander:  (nods) I hear that.

Buffy:  Oh, we better go. (exhales) I haven't even started studying for 
finals yet. (starts to go)

Xander:  (joins her) Oh, yeah, finals! Why didn't you let me die?

Buffy:  Ah, look on the bright side. It'll all be over soon.

They leave the cemetery under the watchful eyes of Angelus.

Angelus:  Yes, my love. It will.

He smirks and turns to leave the other way.

Opening credits roll. Buffy's theme plays.

                    ~~~~~~~~~~ Part 1 ~~~~~~~~~~

The research lab at the Sunnydale Museum of Natural History. The camera 
pans across a large rectangular chunk of rock over to a technician. She 
is carefully cleaning off a section of the rock. She lets a jet of 
compressed air blow away some dust. A moment later she lets another jet 
go, and then reaches up with a brush and runs it across the rock. Dr. 
Doug Perren, one of the museum curators, comes over to check her 
progress.

Doug:  Careful, now. (points) Concentrate in this area. (watches her 
work a moment) There you go.

The door opens behind him, and he turns to see Giles come in.

Giles:  Hello?

Doug:  (comes to greet him) Rupert Giles?

Giles:  Yes.

Doug:  Doug Perren. (shakes his hand) Thanks for coming.

Giles:  Oh, not at all. It's... flattered to be asked.

Doug:  I spoke with Lou Tabor at the Washington Institute, and he told 
me we had the best authority on obscure relics right here in Sunnydale.

Giles:  Oh... (laughs) He may have, uh, exaggerated a little. (sees the 
obelisk) Ah, is this the...

Doug:  This is our baby. (they approach it) Construction workers dug it 
up outside of town. Don't have a clue what it is. Any ideas?

Giles:  (touches and looks at the rock) A few. None I'd care to share 
until I can verify. (notices the runes on it) You have, uh, carbon dated 
it? (inspects the writings)

Doug:  The results'll be back in a couple of days. I'll go out on a limb 
and say old.

Giles:  (smirks) Um, yes, it, it certainly... (picks up a jar and a 
scraper) predates any, uh... settlements we've read about. (points) Um, 
may, may I?

Doug:  Yeah. Sure.

Giles leans in and begins to scrape at the corner of the obelisk, 
catching the debris in the jar. He digs into an apparent groove. A few 
scrapes later he stops and taps the scraper clean on the jar.

Giles:  I assume you've, uh, you haven't tried to open it.

Doug:  Open it?

He leans over to see what Giles has discovered.

Doug:  Ah, I'll be damned. I figured it was solid. What do you think is 
in there?

Giles:  (staring intently) I don't know.

Doug:  Well... I guess we won't know until we open it up.

Giles:  (considers) Yes, but could I ask, um... would you wait? I, uh... 
I'd like to work on translating the text. It-it-it might give us an 
indication of... what we'll find inside.

Doug:  You don't want to be surprised?

Giles:  A-as a rule, no.

Doug:  Alright. You're the expert. But I'm pretty damn curious, though.

Giles:  (removes his glasses) Yes. Yes, so am I.

Cut to the cafeteria at Sunnydale High. The camera focuses on two fish 
sticks that Xander is holding, one with a toothpick stuck through the 
middle. He plays with them like puppets, moving the one with the 
toothpick around.

Xander:  Tell Angel I'm gonna kill him! No, wait. I'm gonna kill you!

He starts to repeatedly stab the toothpick into the other fish stick. 
The camera pulls back and up to his face.

Xander:  Die! Die! Die!

He makes an anguished face and lets the fish stick fall.

Xander:  Aah! (makes a thudding noise) (squeals) Mother! (smiles)

Cordelia:  Is that it?

Xander:  Yeah. That's it. (chuckles) Scene! (grins)

Cut to Willow, Oz and Buffy at the opposite side of the table. Willow is 
sitting on Oz's lap.

Buffy:  That's exactly how it happened.

Oz:  Well, I thought it was riveting. Uh, I was a little unclear about 
some of the themes.

Buffy:  The theme is Angel's too much of a coward to take me on face-to-
face.

Xander:  (still playing with the fish sticks) And the other theme was 
'Buy American', but it, uh, got kind of buried.

Willow:  (to Buffy) Do you think you're ready to fight Angel?

Buffy:  I wish people would stop asking me that. Yes, I'm ready. I'm 
also willing and able. Just the one test I might actually pass.

Willow:  Don't say that! You're gonna pass everything. I will get you 
through this semester if I have to sweat blood.

Xander:  Do you think you're likely to? 'Cause I'd like to be elsewhere.

Willow:  It was only metaphor blood.

Oz:  I think you'd sweat cute blood.

Willow:  (gives Oz a smile) (to Buffy) Sixth period, after my computer 
class, we'll rock on chemistry.

Buffy:  Ready to rock.

Cordelia:  Boy, Willow, you've really got the teaching bug: taking over 
computer class, tutoring...

Willow:  (smiles widely) I love it. I really do.

Cordelia:  I think it's great to do that before you go out and fail in 
the real world. That way you're not falling back on something. You're 
falling... well, forward.

Xander:  (rolls his eyes) And almost sixty-five percent of that was 
actual compliment. Is that a personal best?

Cordelia:  Gee, Xander, what are you gonna teach when you fail in life? 
Advanced loser-being?

Xander:  I will teach... (with a French accent) zee Language of Love! 
(reaches for her)

Cordelia:  (fights him off) Don't touch me! You have fish hands!

Snyder comes into the cafeteria behind them.

Xander:  Come, let me caress you!

Cordelia:  Stop it!

Xander:  Let me in!

Cordelia:  No! (laughs) Don't!

Snyder:  That's enough of that. (to Willow) And you! Are we having a 
chair shortage?

Willow:  I didn't read anything about... Oh. (slides off of Oz's lap and 
into her chair) I get it.

Snyder:  These public displays of affection are not acceptable in my 
school. This isn't an orgy, people. It's a classroom.

Buffy:  Yeah! Where they teach lunch.

Snyder:  (glares at her) Just give me a reason to kick you out, Summers. 
Just give me a reason. (walks off)

Cordelia:  How about because you're a tiny, impotent Nazi with a bug up 
his butt the size of an emu?

Buffy:  Sums it up.

Cordelia:  Don't you think?

Willow:  (smiles) (to Buffy) Do you wanna come by my house tonight and 
study, too?

Buffy:  Maybe. I-I do have to patrol.

Willow:  Again? Do you really expect Angel to turn up tonight?

Buffy:  No, I don't expect him to. But that's usually when he does.

Cut to an abbey in London, 1860. Cut inside the nave. Monks are 
chanting. Drusilla walks behind the pews toward the confession booths. 
Before going in she faces the altar, kneels and crosses herself. She 
looks up briefly before getting back to her feet and going into one of 
the booths. As she steps in through the curtain an arm juts out of the 
adjacent one where the priest waits, and muffled noises and struggling 
can be heard. The arm gets pulled back in as quickly as it appeared. Cut 
inside the confessional. Drusilla sits down and pulls the scarf from her 
head.

Drusilla:  Bless me, Father, for I have sinned.

In the next booth Angelus is caught by surprise, and drops the dead 
priest.

Drusilla:  It's been two days since my last confession. (waits for an 
answer) Father?

Angelus:  (goes along with it) That's not very long.

Drusilla:  (with a trembling voice) Oh, Father, I'm so afraid.

Angelus:  The Lord is very forgiving. Tell me your sins.

Drusilla:  I had... (breathes deeply) I've been seeing again, Father. 
Yesterday, the men were going to work in the mine. I had... (shakes) a 
terrible fright. (draws a frightened breath) My stomach all (draws 
another) tied up, and I saw this horrible... crash. (calms a bit) My 
mummy said to keep my peace, it didn't mean nothing. But this morning... 
they had a cave-in. Two men died.

Angelus:  Go on.

Drusilla:  Me mum says... I'm cursed. (exhales) My seeing things is an 
affront to the Lord, (inhales sharply) that only he's supposed to see 
anything before it happens. (inhales, sobs) But I don't mean to, Father, 
I swear! (inhales) I swear! (begins to cry) I try to be pure in his 
sight. (sobs) I don't want to be an evil thing.

Angelus:  Oh, hush, child. The Lord has a plan for all creatures. Even a 
Devil child like you.

Drusilla:  (taken aback) A Devil?

Angelus:  Yes! You're a spawn of Satan. All the Hail Marys in the world 
aren't going to help. The Lord will use you and smite you down. He's 
like that.

Drusilla:  (frightened) What can I do?

Angelus:  Fulfill his plan, child. Be evil. Just give in.

Drusilla:  No! (sobs) I want to be good. (sobs) I want to be pure.

Angelus:  We all do, at first. The world doesn't work that way.

Drusilla:  Father... I beg you... Please... Please, help me.

Angelus:  Very well. Ten Our Fathers and an Act of Contrition. Does that 
sound good?

Drusilla:  (relieved) Yes. (exhales) Yes, Father. Thank you.

Angelus:  The pleasure was mine. And my child... (raises his hand to the 
lattice between them)

Drusilla:  Yes?

Angelus:  (stares at her) God is watching you.

Cut to the atrium at Angelus' mansion, 1998. Drusilla comes down the 
stairs to the garden below. There Spike sits in his wheelchair and reads 
the newspaper.

Spike:  Nice walk, pet?

Drusilla:  (holds her tummy as though sick) I met an old man. Didn't 
like him. He got stuck in my teeth. (licks her fingers) (faces Spike) 
But then the Moon started whispering to me... (closes her eyes and leans 
her head back) All sorts of dreadful things.

Angelus walks into the Garden behind Spike.

Angelus:  Well, what did it say?

Spike:  Oh. Look who's awake.

Angelus bumps Spike's head with his fist as he walks past him.

Angelus:  What did the Moon tell you? (walks around Dru) Did you have a 
vision? Is something coming?

Drusilla:  Oh, yeah. (whispers) Something terrible. Psst, psst, psst, 
psst, psst, psst...

Angelus:  Where?

Drusilla:  At the museum. A tomb... (smiles) with a surprise inside.

Angelus:  (holds his hand up to her head) You can see all that in your 
head?

Spike:  No, you ninny. She read it in the morning paper. (hands over the 
paper)

Angelus:  (takes the paper and looks) Oh, my.

The headline of the Sunnydale Press reads 'Mysterious Obelisk 
Unearthed'. The article's subtitle reads 'Excavators Discover Ancient 
Artifact'.

Drusilla:  That's what's been whispering to me. Sh.

Angelus:  Oh, yeah. (to Drusilla) Don't worry, though. Soon it'll stop. 
(to Spike) Soon it'll scream.

He smiles over at Spike. Drusilla waves her head around open-mouthed and 
playfully snaps at Angelus' cheek.

Cut to the computer science classroom after school. Willow is tutoring 
Buffy in chemistry. Buffy gives up in frustration and slaps down her 
pencil.

Buffy:  Waah! This doesn't make any sense. (pouts at Willow)

Willow:  Well, sure it does. See... (takes the paper and looks) Oh, no, 
this doesn't make any sense.

Buffy:  (shrugs) It's senseless. (plays with her pencil)

Willow:  (encouragingly) It is, but at least you know that, so you're 
learning. (looks at the problem more closely)

Buffy:  Yay me. Well, it doesn't matter anyway. I mean, when in the real 
world am I ever gonna need chemistry or history or math or the English 
language?

Willow:  (shoots Buffy a glance) Okay. I see your problem.

Buffy:  I'm a moron?

Willow:  (gives Buffy a look) Will you stop that? You're not stupid! 
You've just had a lot on your mind. You can learn this real easily, but 
if you're just gonna give up, then don't waste my time.

Buffy:  (impressed) Wow. You really *are* a good teacher. (smiles)

Willow:  Okay. Look at this. A covalent bond, which means these two 
atoms are linked by this...

Buffy puts her pencil down on her open book, and it rolls off of the 
desk and into the space between it and the filing cabinet next to it.

Buffy:  Ohh! (moans) Hold that thought.

She reaches down and in with her fingers, and pulls the pencil out. In 
the process she bumps the disk with the pencil so it now leans against 
the desk instead of the cabinet.

Buffy:  (sits back up) Okay. I'm Learn Girl.

Willow:  Okay. (points to the paper) So, see here...

Buffy:  (has an epiphany) Deja vu.

Willow:  Really?

Buffy:  Yeah. I have this perfect memory of the pencil and...

She drops the pencil onto her book again. It rolls off of the desk 
again, falls and hits the disk. She looks over into the space and sees 
the disk. She reaches down again for it and her pencil.

Buffy:  Oh, hey. (pulls up the disk and pencil) You dropped this.

She hands the unlabeled yellow disk to Willow, who looks at it 
curiously.

Willow:  It's not mine. It might be something of Ms. Calendar's.

She inserts the disk into her laptop's floppy drive.

Buffy:  This feels kinda morbid.

Willow:  (smiles at Buffy) I've gone through most of her files already.

Buffy:  Does that make it *less* morbid or you *really* morbid?

The program on the disk starts up, and the Rumanian text scrolls into 
the left-hand window. 

Willow:  (sighs) I had to, to teach her class.

The translation program's percent complete window appears, and the bar 
begins to zip across the screen.

Buffy:  Relax, Will. I was making with the funny.

They both watch as the bar reaches the far side. It disappears, and the 
English translation scrolls into the right-hand window.

Buffy:  (looks closely) Does that say 'restoration'? (keeps reading)

Willow:  It's one of her spells, I think. (looks at Buffy) Ms. Calendar 
wasn't a practicing witch, but she did dabble...

Buffy:  (interrupts) Willow... (keeps reading)

Willow looks back at the screen and begins reading more. She quickly 
realizes what they've found.

Willow:  Oh, boy. Oh, boy. Oh, boy.

The camera closes in on Buffy. She has stopped reading, and just looks 
stunned.

                    ~~~~~~~~~~ Part 2 ~~~~~~~~~~

A wood in Rumania, 1898. Angelus runs through the trees, panting in his 
desperation to reach a gypsy camp. Cut to the camp. The camera pans 
across the dead body of the young Kalderash Gypsy girl that Angelus has 
recently killed. She is on a table dressed in white and lying on an 
intricately patterned quilt with candles burning around the perimeter. 
Members of the clan are laying rose petals on her. The camera continues 
to pan over to the Elder Woman sitting beneath a tent canopy and 
chanting over an Orb of Thesulah surrounded by candles within a sacred 
circle. Angelus continues running through the woods as she chants.

Elder Woman:  Nici mort, nici de-al fiintei, Te invoc, spirit al 
trecerii. Reda trupului ce separa omul de animal!

Translation:  Neither dead, nor of the living, I invoke you, spirit of 
the passing. Return to the body what distinguishes Man from the beast!

Angelus breaks through the trees into the clearing of the camp. He trips 
and falls by the great bonfire raging near the center of the camp.

Elder Woman:  Asa sa fie.

Translation:  So it shall be.

He gets to his hands and knees and looks over at the Elder Woman, still 
chanting. Cut to the Elder Woman.

Elder Woman:  Utrespur aceastui.

Translation:  Restore this one.

The glowing Orb suddenly gets very bright for an instant, and then goes 
dark. Cut to Angelus. His eyes grow bright for a moment, then return to 
normal, his soul now restored. An elder man of the clan steps up to him 
as he sits back on his ankles.

Gypsy Man:  It hurts, yes? Good. It will hurt more.

Angel:  (confused) Where am I? (pants hard)

Gypsy Man:  You don't remember... everything you've done for a hundred 
years. In a moment, you will. The face of everyone you killed... our 
daughter's face... they will haunt you, and you will know what true 
suffering is.

Angel:  (still not understanding) Killed? I, I don't...

Slowly the memories come back to him: all the people in Budapest after 
the earthquake that he and Darla killed for their blood; all the people 
he's turned into demons; the gypsy girl that proved to be his downfall.

Angel:  No...

He looks down away from the man and begins to sob.

Angel:  No... No... No...

He bends down to the ground in sorrow and grief.

Cut to the library at Sunnydale High School, 1998. Xander and Cordelia 
are sitting at the table. Giles walks up to Buffy and Willow.

Giles:  What are you saying?

Buffy:  The curse. (holds out a printout) This is it.

Willow:  Looks like Ms. Calendar was trying to replicate the original 
curse. To restore Angel's soul again.

Giles:  (takes the printout, stares at it) She said it couldn't be done.

Buffy:  Well, she tried anyway. And it looks like it might have worked.

Xander:  So he killed her... before she could tell anyone about it. What 
a prince, huh? (looks away)

Cordelia:  This is good, right? I mean, we can curse him again.

Buffy paces, thinking.

Giles:  Um, well, this, um... certainly points the way, but... the 
ritual itself requires a greater knowledge of the black arts than I, I, 
I can claim.

Willow:  Well, I've been going through her files and, and researching 
the black arts, for fun, or educational fun, and I may be able to work 
this.

Giles:  (very concerned) W-Willow... channeling... such potent magicks 
through yourself, it could open a door that you may not be able to 
close.

Buffy:  I don't want you putting yourself in any danger, Will.

Willow:  And I don't want danger. Big 'no' to danger, but I may be the 
best person to do this.

Xander:  Hi! For those of you who have just tuned in, (gets up) everyone 
here is a crazy person. (walks to the end of the table) So this spell 
might restore Angel's humanity? Well, here's an interesting angle. 
(harshly) Who cares?

Buffy:  I care.

Xander:  (not surprised) Is that right.

Giles:  Let's not lose our perspective here, Xander.

Willow looks at Xander, disbelieving what she's hearing from him.

Xander:  (standing his ground) I'm Perspective Guy. Angel's a killer.

Willow:  Xander...

Buffy:  It's not that simple.

Xander:  (disgusted) What? All is forgiven? I can't believe you people!

Cordelia:  (gets up) Xander has a point.

Xander:  (to Cordelia, in a raised voice) You know, just for once, I 
wish you'd support me, and I realize right now that you were, and I'm 
embarrassed, so I'm gonna get back to the point, (to the others) which 
is that Angel needs to die.

Giles:  Curing Angel seems to have been Jenny's last wish.

Xander:  Yeah? Well, Jenny's dead.

Giles:  (approaches Xander angrily) Don't you *ever* speak of her in 
that tone again!

Xander:  (yells back) Can't you hear what I'm saying?

They begin to argue heatedly. Buffy rushes over and gets between them.

Buffy:  Stop it! Stop it!

They all shut up and glare at each other for a moment. Buffy turns away 
and goes over to Willow, very upset. Giles paces away, also very upset.

Willow:  (quietly) What do you wanna do?

Buffy:  (sighs) (quietly) I-I don't know. What happened to Angel wasn't 
his fault.

Xander:  Yeah, but what happened to Ms. Calendar is.

Buffy and Willow stare at him in disbelief.

Xander:  (very coldly) You can paint this any way you want. But the way 
I see it is that you wanna forget all about Ms. Calendar's murder so you 
can get your boyfriend back.

Buffy refuses to listen to any more of this, and walks out of the 
library. Willow and Giles just stare at Xander in surprise and shock. He 
walks back to his chair at the table.

Cut to the museum research lab. Dr. Perren is going over his notes when 
he hears some whispering coming from behind him. He turns around to 
look, but no one's there.

Doug:  Hello?

He gets up and slowly walks over to the obelisk. The whispering gets 
louder as he nears it. He reaches up to the runes on the face of the 
rock and touches them. The whispering seems to be coming from inside. He 
places his hand flat on the face of the rock and stares up at it in 
amazement. Suddenly Drusilla wraps her hand around his mouth from behind 
and pulls his head back to expose his neck. She leans in and bites him 
hard as he struggles to get away. Behind her Angelus and two other 
vampires approach the obelisk.

Angelus:  I'll have one of these to go.

The two vampires walk around the rock with some rope and tools to haul 
it away.

Angelus:  Dru...

She jerks her head up from her victim and turns her eyes toward him, 
growling and smiling a most evil smile.

Angelus:  Save me some.

Cut to Buffy's room at home. She piles a bunch of stakes and crosses 
into her bag while talking on the phone with Willow.

Buffy:  Well, I'll do a couple of sweeps, and then I'll stop by. 
(listens) Yeah, Xander was pretty much being a... Willow! Where did you 
learn that word? My God. You kiss your mother with that mouth?

She goes over to her desk while listening to Willow talk some more. She 
grabs a couple more stakes from the top left drawer.

Buffy:  I don't know. I don't know what I wanna do.

At the bottom of the drawer she sees the claddagh ring that Angel gave 
her, and stares at it sadly for a moment. She reaches in for it and 
holds it gently with her fingers, remembering.

Buffy:  I'll, I'll see you in a little while, okay?

She turns off the phone and sets it down. She holds the ring with both 
hands again and gazes at the design: two hands for friendship, a crown 
for loyalty and a heart for love.

Cut to the park. Buffy walks through on patrol and heads into some 
bushes. She stops and jerks her head aside when she hears something 
snap. Slowly she takes a few more steps to investigate. She hears 
another sound behind her, and spins around to look. Nothing. Again she 
takes a couple of steps. Suddenly Kendra comes out of the bushes to 
stand right behind her. Buffy instantly pivots around with her fist held 
up, ready to punch. She stays herself when she recognizes the other 
girl.

Buffy:  (exhales) You know, polite people call before they jump out of 
the bushes and attack you.

Kendra:  (in her accent) Just wanted to test your reflexes.

Buffy:  How about testing my face-punching? 'Cause I think you'll find 
it's improved.

Kendra:  I was on my way to your house. Saw you walking. Couldn't help 
meself.

Buffy:  (smiles) Which begs the question, and don't think I'm not glad 
to see you, but, why are you here? (Kendra starts to answer) Oh, wait. 
No, let me guess. Your watcher informed you (imitating her accent) dat a 
very dark power is about to rise in Sunnydale.

Kendra:  Dat's about it.

Buffy:  Great. So, you have any idea what this dark power is?

Cut to the main hall in Angelus' mansion. He and Drusilla walk in across 
the marble floor to where Spike is sitting in his wheelchair, staring at 
the obelisk set in front of the huge fireplace.

Spike:  (hears them coming) It's a big rock. I can't wait to tell my 
friends. They don't have a rock this big.

Angelus:  Spike, boy, you never did learn your history.

Spike:  Let's have a lesson, then.

Angelus:  Acathla the demon came forth to swallow the world. (strolls to 
the obelisk) He was killed by a virtuous knight who pierced the demon's 
heart before he could draw a breath to perform the act. Acathla turned 
to stone, as demons sometimes do, and was buried (turns to face Spike) 
where neither man nor demon would want to look. (starts away from the 
obelisk) Unless of course they're putting up low-rent housing. Boys...

The two vampires reach up with crowbars and pry open the tomb. The lid 
crashes to the floor, stirring up plenty of dust. Inside is a tall, 
horned, stockily built stone demon with a sword protruding from the 
right side of its chest. Upon seeing him Drusilla closes her eyes, 
raises her hands to the sides of her head and begins to sway it back and 
forth.

Drusilla:  He fills my head. I can't hear anything else.

Spike:  Let me guess. Someone pulls out the sword...

Angelus:  Someone worthy...

Spike:  Mm. The demon wakes up, and wackiness ensues.

Drusilla:  (opens her eyes, lowers her arms) He will swallow the world.

Angelus:  And every creature living on this planet will go to Hell.

He walks up to Acathla for a closer look, and turns to face the others.

Angelus:  My friends... we're about to make history... end. (smiles 
evilly)

                    ~~~~~~~~~~ Part 3 ~~~~~~~~~~

The library. Giles comes out of his office into the main room where 
Buffy and Kendra are waiting at the table. Willow is behind the counter, 
researching in a book.

Giles:  I've been on the phone to the museum. The artifact in question 
is missing, and the curator has been murdered. Vampires. (leans on the 
table)

Buffy:  And you're sure this was the tomb of Alfalfa?

Giles:  Acathla. And yes, the information provided by Kendra's Watcher 
seems conclusive.

He straightens back up. Willow walks out from behind the counter.

Willow:  Okay, somebody explain the whole 'he will suck the world into 
Hell' thing, because that's the part I'm not loving.

Giles:  Well, the, uh, (puts on his glasses) the Demon Universe exists 
in a dimension separate from our own. (sits on the table) With one 
breath, Acathla will create a vortex, a-a kind of, um... whirlpool that 
will pull everything on Earth into that dimension, where any non-demon 
life will suffer horrible and... eternal torment.

Buffy:  So that would be the literal kind of 'sucked into Hell'. (smiles 
nervously) Neat. (frowns, turns to Willow) Willow, I think you should 
try the curse.

Kendra:  I tend to side with your friend Xander on this one. Angel 
should be eliminated.

Buffy:  Oh, I'll fight him. I'll kill him if I have to. But if I don't 
get there in time, or if I lose, then Willow might be our only hope.

Willow:  (taken aback) I don't *wanna* be our only hope! Uh, I crumble 
under pressure! Let's have another hope.

Kendra:  We have. (pulls a sword from her bag) Blessed by the knight who 
first slew the demon. (Giles looks at the sword, intrigued) If all else 
fails, this might stop it. I tink.

Giles:  (approaches) Ooh. May I? May I? (takes the sword from Kendra) 
Thank you. Well, l-let's, uh, hope all else doesn't fail. (to Willow) 
Um, how close are you to f-figuring out the ritual of the curse?

Willow:  (goes to her pack) I need about a day, and... (picks up some 
papers and reads) an 'Orb of Thesulah'? Whatever that is.

Giles:  (hands the sword back to Kendra) Spirit vault for rituals of the 
undead. (heads toward his office) I've got one. (embarrassed) I-I've 
been using it as a... paperweight. (disappears into his office)

Willow:  (to Buffy) This means I can't help you study for tomorrow's 
final.

Buffy:  Ah, I'll wing it. Of course, if we go to Hell by then, I won't 
have to take 'em. (worried) Or maybe I'll be taking them forever.

Giles:  (comes back with the Orb) Angel has a ritual of his own to 
perform before he can remove the sword and awaken Acathla. With any 
luck, it should take some time.

Buffy stares at the Orb as Giles hands it to Willow.

Cut to Angelus' mansion. Spike paces in his room. He hears Drusilla 
coming.

Drusilla:  Spike?

He quickly gets back into his chair. Drusilla comes through the curtain 
into the room.

Drusilla:  Spike, my sweet! The fun's about to begin.

He wheels himself out of the room and heads for the main hall.

Cut to the main hall before the obelisk. The two vampires drag in a 
young man, barefoot and bare-chested with his hands tied behind his 
back. They drop him to the floor before Spike, Angelus and Drusilla.

Angelus:  (comes toward the young man) I will drink... the blood will 
wash in me, over me, and I will be cleansed. I will be worthy to free 
Acathla. (looks at Spike) Bear witness... (looks at Drusilla) as I 
ascend... (looks ahead and morphs into his game face) as I become.

He grabs the man by the hair and lifts him up, holding his head at an 
angle to expose his neck. He roars and bites the young man hard and fast 
on the neck. He drinks deeply, brings up his hand to brush it against 
the man's wound and then lets him fall to the floor dead. He looks at 
the blood on his hand. He lowers it and starts to walk slowly toward 
Acathla.

Angelus:  Everything that I am, everything that I have done, has led me 
here.

Cut to Manhattan, 1996. A bum steps up to a trashcan and begins to go 
through it. A man walks past him and on down the street. Having found 
nothing, the bum makes his way into an alley with slow, labored steps. A 
boy runs past him with a package and disappears further down the alley. 
The bum, tired and weak, staggers into a concrete post at the side of 
the alley and stops. He coughs and rolls around to lean with his back 
against the post, and it's Angel, tired, filthy and unkempt. He just 
breathes for a moment, and then smells something. He searches the alley 
with his eyes and spots a rat scampering across to the other side. He 
takes a couple of unsteady steps, brushes the hair from his face and 
begins to stalk the rat. It reaches the other side and disappears into a 
pile of trashcans and bags. Angel dives after it, scattering the cans 
and bags noisily, but loses the rat. A man comes into the alley behind 
him. Angel rolls over to sit and flails his arms at the trashcans in 
anger over missing the rat. The man comes up to him.

Whistler:  God, are you disgusting.

Angel calms down a bit and looks around himself.

Whistler:  This is really an unforgettable smell. This is the stench of 
death you're giving off here. And the look says, uh... Crazy Homeless 
Guy. It's not good.

Angel:  (angrily) Get away from me.

Whistler:  What are you gonna do, bite me? (gasps and jumps back) 
Horrors! A vampire!

Angel looks at him in surprise.

Whistler:  Ah, but you wouldn't bite me on account of your poor, 
tortured soul. It's so sad, a vampire with a soul. It's so poignant.

Angel:  (confused) Who are you?

Whistler:  Let's take a walk.

Cut to a ways down the street. The two of them walk along the sidewalk 
for a few paces and then turn into the street to cross to the hotdog 
stand on the other side. Angel isn't paying any attention to the 
traffic, so Whistler grabs his arm to stop him.

Whistler:  What are you eating? (they continue across) Like, a rat once 
a month?

Angel strays and almost walks into another car. Whistler grabs him again 
and pulls him back in time.

Whistler:  Hey! (car honks, they continue) Look, you're skin and bones 
here! Butcher shops are throwing away more blood in a day than you could 
stand. Good blood. (they reach the far side) You lived in the world a 
little bit, you'd know that.

Angel:  I wanna know who you are. (stops)

Whistler:  (stops and faces him) And I wanna know who *you* are.

Angel:  You already do.

Whistler:  Not yet. But I'm looking to find out. 'Cause you could go 
either way here.

Angel:  I don't understand you.

Whistler:  Nobody understands me. That's my curse. (chuckles)

He steps over to the street vendor and pulls out some cash.

Whistler:  Dog me. Mustard.

He watches the vendor get out the hotdog and squirt on some mustard.

Whistler:  (to Angel) My name's Whistler.

Vendor:  Here you go.

Whistler:  (takes the dog) Thanks. (hands over a bill, turns to Angel) 
Anyway, lately it is. (takes a bite) Mm.

Angel:  (looks down) You're not a vampire.

Whistler:  A demon... technically. I mean, I'm not a bad guy. Not all 
demons are dedicated to the destruction of all life.

Angel:  (looks at him) Whadaya mean, I can go either way?

Whistler:  I mean that you can become an even more useless rodent than 
you already are, or you can become someone. A person. Someone to be 
counted.

Angel:  I just wanna be left alone. (starts away)

Whistler:  Well, yeah, you've been left alone for, what, ninety years 
already. (Angel turns back) And what a package you are. The Stink Guy!

Angel:  What do you want from me?

Whistler:  I want you to see something.

He gives Angel an intense look. Angel just looks at him.

Whistler:  We'd have to leave now. You see, and then you tell me what 
you wanna do.

Angel:  Where is it?

Cut to Hemery High School in Los Angeles, 1996. School is over for the 
day, and the students come streaming out. An old, rusted Chevy Impala 
with its windows spray-painted black pulls up on the far side of the 
street. The driver's window lowers, and Angel squints out into the 
daylight, careful to remain in shadow. He looks over at the building and 
sees Buffy come down the steps with three of her friends.

Buffy:  So I'm like, 'Dad, do you want me to go to the dance in an 
outfit I've already worn? Why do you hate me?'

Girl#1:  Is Tyler taking you?

Buffy:  Where were you when I got over Tyler? He's of the past. (Angel 
watches her) Tyler would have to crawl on his hands and knees to get me 
to go to the dance with him. Which, actually, he's supposed to do after 
practice, so I'm gonna wait.

Girl#1:  Okay. See ya later.

Girl#2:  Bye!

Buffy:  (waves to Girl#1) Call me!

Girl#1:  Okay!

Buffy:  (waves to Girl#2) Call me! (waves to Girl#3) Call me!

Girl#3:  I will!

Buffy climbs back up a few steps and looks around. She takes off her 
jacket and sits down to wait for Tyler. She lays the jacket across her 
legs and idly looks around again. A man in a black suit approaches her. 
He is her first Watcher, who has finally found her.

Watcher:  Buffy Summers?

Buffy:  (looks at him) Yeah? (smiles) Hi! (confused) What?

Watcher:  I need to speak with you.

Buffy:  (worried) You're not from Bullock's, are you? 'Cause I-I meant 
to pay for that lipstick.

Watcher:  There isn't much time. You must come with me. Your destiny 
awaits.

Buffy:  (confused, shakes her head) I don't have a destiny. (nods) I'm 
destiny-free, really.

Watcher:  (seriously) Yes, you have. You are the Chosen One. You alone 
can stop them.

Buffy:  Who?

Watcher:  The vampires.

Buffy:  (considers for a moment) Huh?

Cut to a cemetery. Buffy lands flat on her back.

Buffy:  Oof!

A vampire props himself over her, growling menacingly. She is very 
frightened, and looks around frantically for what to do. Angel watches 
from behind some gravestones. Buffy spots her stake, but can't reach it, 
so she just gets her hands underneath the vampire and pushes him off. He 
flies off of her and lands hard on his back.

Buffy:  Oh, God...

She rolls onto her hands and knees and scrambles on all fours to 
retrieve her stake.

Buffy:  Oh, God... Oh... Oh, God... Unh!

She grabs the stake and quickly gets to her feet. She looks at it, 
unsure of what to do next. The vampire gets up and lunges at her. 
Reflexively she grabs him, sidesteps him and sends him flipping over to 
the ground again, dazed. She looks at the vampire, amazed by what she 
just did. She glances back at the Watcher, down at her stake and then 
makes her move to dispatch the vampire. She quickly gets to her knees, 
raises the stake above her head and plunges it into him, but gets him in 
the gut instead of the chest.

Buffy:  Oh! Not the heart!

Angel watches, concerned. Buffy plunges the stake into the vampire 
again, and this time hits her mark. An instant later the vampire bursts 
into ashes. Buffy is caught by surprise, and she screams and jumps back, 
landing on her butt. She just stares at the ashes on the grass in wide-
eyed shock. Behind her the Watcher steps up.

Watcher:  You see? You see your power?

Buffy isn't at all sure she wants to see. Angel continues to watch.

Cut to Buffy's house in L.A. The camera looks into her room from 
outside. Buffy comes in with her mother close behind.

Joyce:  Why didn't you call?

Buffy:  (faces her mom) I'm sorry. I-I didn't know it was so late. Tyler 
and I were talking.

Joyce:  (exhales) That boy is irresponsible.

Buffy:  No, mom. It's not his fault. (takes off her jacket)

Joyce:  You know we worry, that's all.

They look at each other for a moment, and Joyce shrugs.

Joyce:  Dinner's in ten minutes. (leaves)

Buffy:  (whispers) Yeah.

She goes through the other door into her bathroom. The camera pans from 
the bedroom window over to the bathroom window. She turns on the water 
to wash up from the cemetery. Her parents talk in the hall, and she can 
hear as it escalates into an argument.

Hank:  Did she say where she was?

Joyce:  She was with Tyler.

Hank:  I don't want her seeing him anymore, period!

Angel looks in at her from outside.

Joyce:  You're overreacting, dear.

Buffy looks at herself in the mirror sadly. The tears begin to come.

Hank:  Don't do that! Don't talk to me like I'm a kid!

Joyce:  I don't! Just forget it!

Angel continues to watch and listen.

Hank:  Just because you can't discipline her, I have to be the ogre!

Buffy keeps on staring into the mirror.

Joyce:  I am not having this conversation again! Alright?

Buffy looks down and tries hard not to cry.

Cut to the sewers. Angel arrives where Whistler is waiting for him.

Whistler:  She's gonna have it tough, that Slayer. She's just a kid. The 
world's full of big, bad things.

Angel:  I wanna help her. (Whistler looks at him) I want... I wanna 
become someone.

Whistler:  God, jeez, look at you. She must be prettier than the last 
Slayer. (Angel looks away) This isn't gonna be easy. The more you live 
in this world, the more you see how apart from it you really are. 
(sternly) And this is dangerous work. Right now, you couldn't go three 
rounds with a fruit fly!

Angel:  (with resolve) I wanna learn from you.

Whistler:  Alright.

Angel:  But I don't wanna dress like you. (starts to leave)

Whistler:  (follows) Again, you're annoying me. You're lucky we need you 
on our side.

Cut to Angelus' mansion, 1998. He approaches Acathla, still vamped out.

Angelus:  I have strayed, I have been lost. But Acathla redeems me. With 
this act, we will be free.

He grabs the hilt of the sword with both hands. A blindingly bright 
light emanates from it. Drusilla smiles and bathes herself in it. 
Angelus begins to shake with the power of the sword.

                    ~~~~~~~~~~ Part 4 ~~~~~~~~~~

In the main hall of Angelus' mansion. He holds onto the sword tightly, 
trying to draw it out of Acathla. It won't budge, and a moment later a 
bright red flame bursts from the sword, throwing Angelus back and onto 
the floor.

Spike:  (sing-song) Someone wasn't worthy.

Angelus:  (scrambles to his feet) Damn it!

Drusilla:  (freaks out) This is so... disappointing! (moans)

Angelus:  (paces angrily) There must be something I missed. The 
incantations, the blood... I don't know!

Spike tries hard to suppress a snicker, hiding his mouth with his hand.

Drusilla:  (whining) What are we going to do?

Angelus:  (menacingly) What we always do in a time of trouble: turn to 
an old friend.

Hope returns to Drusilla's eyes.

Angelus:  (viciously) We'll have our Armageddon. I swear!

He grabs a vase from a shelf and heaves it at the far wall, smashing it 
into hundreds of tiny pieces.

Cut to class the next day. Willow, Buffy, Xander, Cordelia and the rest 
of the class are taking one of their final exams. Everyone is intent on 
it. Buffy looks up and glances around briefly, then turns her attention 
back on her paper.

Cut to the hall. There are very few students. A mysterious figure with a 
shawl over its head walks slowly toward the room where the team is 
taking their test. The camera follows. The few students who pass don't 
take any notice.

Cut back to the class. Everyone is concentrating on the test, and no one 
notices as the vampire comes in and pulls the shawl away from its face.

Vampire:  Tonight... Sundown... (everyone looks up) At the graveyard...

Teacher:  (gets up) Excuse me...

Exposed now to the daylight, the vampire begins to smoke.

Vampire:  You will come to him. (takes the shawl off) You will come to 
him or more will die.

She points at Buffy and ignites. Buffy watches, taken aback by the 
vampire's direct approach at delivering her message.

Vampire:  Tonight!

The students scream, jump out of their chairs and begin to run from the 
room. Cordelia and Xander also jump up, but don't run. Buffy remains 
calmly in her seat.

Vampire:  His hour is at hand!

She combusts in a flash of flame and smoke. Buffy just stares at the 
empty space before her.

Cut to the library. Xander, Cordelia and Willow are researching at the 
table. Kendra approaches with her sheathed sword. The camera pulls back 
to show Giles and Buffy up on the mezzanine.

Buffy:  She said more would die. I have to go.

Kendra:  Den I should go wit you.

Buffy:  (faces Kendra) No. I need you here just in case. (heads for the 
stairs) I can take care of myself. And look, (comes down) as long as 
Angel's fighting me, then he can't do this end-of-the-world ritual 
thingy, and that's a good. (reaches the table) Will, what do you think?

Willow:  (looks over her research) I just want to cross-check...

Buffy:  We don't have time. If this is gonna work, it has to work now.

Willow:  Okay. Then I need maybe half an hour once we're all set up.

Giles:  (looks at the shelves) Which means you just have to hold Angel 
off. Don't let him close on you. (pulls out a book) If the curse 
succeeds, you'll, you'll know.

He tosses the book down to Xander. Xander checks the title, and hands it 
to Willow.

Cordelia:  Why don't you just wait here to find out if it worked, see if 
he phones you?

Buffy:  I can't risk him killing any more people. I better go. (starts 
out)

Xander:  Be careful.

Buffy:  (looks back) I will. (starts out again.)

Kendra:  Here...

She grabs a stake from the table. Buffy stops and looks back. Kendra 
goes over to her and holds up the twisted but very sharp stake.

Kendra:  In case de curse does not succeed, dis is my lucky stake. I 
have killed many vampires wit it. I call it Mr. Pointy.

Buffy:  You named your stake?

Kendra:  (a bit embarrassed) Yes.

Buffy:  (smiles) Remind me to get you a stuffed animal.

She accepts the stake from Kendra and looks it over.

Buffy:  Thanks.

Kendra:  (exhales) Watch your back.

Buffy leaves the library.

Cut to the cemetery. Buffy walks through, watching all around as she 
goes. Angelus walks out from behind a small mausoleum.

Angelus:  Hello, lover. I wasn't sure you'd come.

Buffy:  After your immolation-o-gram? Come on, I had to show. Shouldn't 
you be out destroying the world right now, pulling the sword out of Al 
Franken or whatever his name is?

Angelus:  There's time enough. I wanted to say goodbye first. You are 
the one thing in this dimension I will miss.

Buffy:  This is a beautiful moment we're having. Can we please fight?

Angelus:  I didn't come here to fight.

Buffy:  (raises her eyebrows) No?

Angelus:  Gosh, I was hoping we could get back together. What do you 
think? Do we have a shot? (gets a look from Buffy) Alright. We'll fight.

He rushes at her.

Cut to the library. Willow is sitting cross-legged on the table. Before 
her is the Orb of Thesulah within a sacred circle and surrounded by 
candles, bones and stones. Willow casts some stones. She looks at them 
and then gives Giles a nod. He opens a book and reads the Latin text.

Giles:  Quod perditum est, invenietur.

Translation:  What is lost, return.

Cordelia swirls incense into the air while Xander watches.

Willow:  'Not dead nor not of the living. Spirits of the interregnum I 
call...'

Cut to the graveyard. Buffy ducks a punch from Angelus and comes up 
behind him. He spins around to block her return swing. He blocks another 
jab from her, and punches her in the face. He follows up with a left 
hook, and Buffy loses her balance and nearly falls down. Angelus grabs 
her by the back of her coat and throws her over onto the grounds. She 
rolls away and onto her back, and looks up at him.

Buffy:  Come on, Willow.

She swiftly gets back to her feet to continue fighting.

Cut to the library. Kendra guards the main doors.

Willow:  'Let him know the pain of humanity, gods. Reach your wizened 
hands to me. Give me the sword...'

Suddenly a vampire comes out from the stacks and attacks Xander from 
behind. The main doors fly open, and Kendra spins around to defend as 
two more vampires walk in. Giles points to the steps and yells at the 
girls as a fourth vampire appears from the stacks.

Giles:  Get out! Go!

Willow and Cordelia make for the stairs. Kendra punches the first of the 
two vampires to reach her. The fourth one jumps over the mezzanine 
railing and lands on Giles' back, knocking him into the table. Cordelia 
and Willow run up the stairs and see Xander elbow the vampire on his 
back, knocking the demon into a bookcase. Having punched down the one 
vampire, Kendra grabs the other and shoves her into the wall. The first 
one gets up and rushes in to fight. Willow runs around behind the stacks 
to try to escape. Cordelia is frozen in fright. Giles grabs a vase from 
the table and smashes it over his attacker's head. Xander's assailant 
rushes him again, but Xander sidesteps him. He spins around, grabs 
Xander and shoves him into a bookcase. The one down below hops up onto 
the table, runs across it and leaps over the railing above. Willow sees 
him coming, and hides behind a bookcase. The vampire doesn't stop and 
just pushes the case over onto Willow. She falls to the floor, and the 
books and case land on top of her, knocking her out. The vampire Kendra 
is fighting ducks her swing. Xander's opponent grabs his arm, loops his 
own around it tightly and pulls down, breaking it. Xander yells out in 
pain. Kendra ducks a roundhouse kick from her enemy and blocks several 
swings. Xander grabs his tormenter's hair and smashes his head down on 
the railing. Below Giles ducks a swing and punches the vampire in the 
gut. Kendra lands two punches in the face of her attacker. Giles pounds 
his assailant on the back, but he just roars and spins around with a 
punch to Giles' face, knocking him out. Xander picks the dazed vampire 
up and shoves him into the other one going at Cordelia, knocking him 
down.

Xander:  Go!

He grabs his broken arm and winces in pain. Cordelia screams and runs 
out through the stacks. Xander watches Kendra's opponent punch her in 
the face, but Kendra ducks and backs into her and comes up holding back 
the vampire's head. She plunges her stake into her heart, and she bursts 
into ashes. Xander winces again in pain. Willow lies prone under the 
fallen bookcase. Kendra looks around for her next target. She sees the 
one going for Giles, and rushes over to pull him off. She shoves him 
around to the floor. He tries to get up, but she just punches him back 
down. He tries again, and she grabs him and throws him through the 
window into Giles' office. Just then another one tackles her from the 
side.

Cut to the cemetery. Buffy punches Angelus, but he takes it in stride. 
She swings again, but he grabs her arm and holds on tight. She swings 
with the other one, but he grabs it, too, and then pushes her away.

Angelus:  Jeez, is it me, or is your heart not in this?

Buffy pulls out Kendra's stake.

Angelus:  Maybe I'll just go home, destroy the world.

Buffy:  Well, I think Mr. Pointy'll have something to say about that. 
Come on. Let's finish this. You and me.

Angelus:  (chuckles) Y-you never learn, do you? This wasn't about you. 
This was never about you. (chuckles)

She realizes the trap was set for the others, and begins to run.

Angelus:  (smiles) And you fall for it every single time!

Cut to the library. A vampire punches Kendra, and she stumbles, but 
regains her footing. Up in the stacks the other one comes at Xander and 
punches him in the face, knocking him out. Below Kendra is hit by a 
roundhouse kick, and falls. The library doors swing open, and Drusilla 
walks in. The vampire tries to kick Kendra, but she blocks it and swings 
out with her leg, tripping him, and gets back to her feet to face the 
other two, the one that came down from above, the other one now back out 
of Giles' office. The third one is up again also, and they close in on 
her, but before any more fighting can ensue Drusilla claps her hands.

Drusilla:  Enough.

She bids Kendra come hither with her waving fingers. The other three 
just back off. Kendra faces Drusilla, ready to fight. Drusilla walks 
around her and goads her on. Kendra kicks at her, but Drusilla blocks 
her easily, as well as two follow-up swings. She punches Kendra and 
sends her spinning to the floor.

Cut to a street. Buffy runs like mad to get to the school.

Cut to the library. Drusilla ducks a kick from Kendra and grabs her by 
the arms. She swings her around and shoves her away. Kendra comes back 
at her again with a kick to the gut, and Drusilla doubles over for an 
instant. Kendra lunges at her, but Drusilla grabs her by the throat and 
forces her back against the counter, gripping hard and choking her.

Drusilla:  Look at me, Dearie.

She waves two extended fingers before Kendra's eyes and begins to 
hypnotize her.

Drusilla:  Be... in my eyes. Be... in me.

She lets go, and Kendra is completely under her spell. She sways back 
and forth a bit, and Kendra follows her every move to stay in contact 
with her eyes. Drusilla backs away slightly, lowering her arms and never 
losing eye contact.

Cut to the park. Buffy races through, leaping a bench as she runs.

Cut to the library. Kendra continues to sway with Drusilla. Drusilla 
extends out the fingers of her right hand at her side. She smiles evilly 
as she swings her hand up and slices Kendra's neck with her sharp nails. 
Kendra grabs at her neck as it begins to bleed heavily, and collapses to 
the floor. Drusilla watches her fall, and turns to look down at her.

Drusilla:  Night-night.

She kisses the air above her and turns to her accomplices.

Drusilla:  Let's get what we came for, dears.

Two of them grab an unconscious Giles by the arms and drag him from the 
library. Drusilla and the third vampire follow them out.

Cut outside. Buffy runs across the school grounds. Cut into the halls. 
Buffy throws open the door and rushes in. As she rounds a corner the 
scene slows. Buffy runs down the hall in slow motion as Whistler 
narrates over the scene.

Whistler:  Bottom line is, even if you see 'em coming, you're not ready 
for the big moments.

Buffy barges into the library and stops.

Whistler:  No one asks for their life to change, not really. But it 
does.

She looks around at the damage, and then sees Kendra lying on the floor. 
She runs to her, still in slow motion, and skids down next to her on her 
knees. She sees that she's gone, and takes her hand.

Whistler:  So what are we, helpless? Puppets? No. The big moments are 
gonna come. You can't help that. It's what you do afterwards that 
counts. That's when you find out who you are.

Buffy reaches up to Kendra's face with her other hand and strokes it 
gently. Behind her a police officer raises his gun at her.

Officer:  Freeze!

Buffy looks back at him, seemingly caught red-handed.

Whistler:  You'll see what I mean.

To Be Continued...





[an error occurred while processing this directive]





